T he M useum is open 10 AM till 5 PM daily (including weekends and holidays) from May 15th through Oct 15th.
The wayside Cabin is open every day. Admission is free however there are no lights or water at the site.
Both sites are handicap accessible.
Immediate Family Pkg - $14 
  Students K-College - $2
  Adults - $5
  Annual Pass - $25
  Access to Gift Shop ONLY - Free
Click the map forGoogle Street View.From there, you can get directions and maps.
Great News ! !
We just received another shipment ofPioneer Girl: The Annotated Autobiography of Laura Ingalls Wilder. Place your order now forimmediateshipment. Click below to ordersecurelyonline and we will ship your copyimmediately. And,thanksfor being patient.
Laura Ingalls Wilder (shown at left with her husband Almanzo) was born February 7, 1867, just seven miles North of thevillage of Pepin, Wisconsin on County Highway CC.This is where the "Little House in the Big Woods" stood.The log cabin standing on the site today is a re-creation of the Ingalls' home. It sits on the very land owned by Charles and Caroline Ingalls (Ma &Pa).
The original log house and barn are no longer there. The big woods is gone, too. What once was the big woods is now a modern farming community. A highway winds through the land that was the Ingalls farm, probably following very closely the wagon track which Laura describes in her book.
One thing that still remains is the "beautiful lake" about which she wrote. People still admire its beauty just as Laura did on her first visit to the village of Pepin. Both commercial fisherman and sportsmen still catch fish in Lake Pepin just as Pa did in the 1870's.
The Laura Ingalls Wilder Museum features many items Laura and her family would haverecognizedand recalls the era in which she lived.
Complete with gift shop, the museum is ideally located along State Highway 35 (The Great River Road) at 306 Third Street in Pepin, Wisconsin. We're closed for the winter months.
In 1996, Pepin became the official starting point of the Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Highway, which links Laura Ingalls Wilder sites across the upper Midwest.The Museum is open 10 AM - 5 PM daily from May 15th - Oct 15th, then closed for the winter months. We can be reached through the "Contact Us" page or with a message at 715.513.6383.
"Laura" fans visit Pepin from around the world. We invite you to stop in and see us too!
You're invited to join us as we continue to upgrade the museum and you can help us as we grow. Your donation of $60 or more will allow us to purchase a paver engraved with the name of anyone you choose. This paver will be installed right in front of our new gift shop addition.
Click Here to download a printable form describing our drive in more detail.
The Laura Ingalls Wilder Museum in Pepin, Wisconsin With New Gift Shop Addition
Click Here to see the floor plan
The Laura Ingalls Wilder Memorial Society, Inc., was officially organized in July of 1974. Through the generosity of the Pepin business community and the present landowner, the society was fortunate in acquiring three acres of land at the original site of Laura's birth.
The Museum is open10 AM - 5 PMdaily fromMay 15th - Oct 15th, then closed for the winter months. We can be reached through the "Contact Us" page or with a message at715.513.6383.
Click Here to download a printable copy of the museum brochure.
We'reconvenientlylocated on the Great River Road.
Connect with us on Facebook
Pepin, Wisconsin celebrates its distinction as the birthplace of pioneer author Laura Ingalls Wilder and the setting for the book byLaura Ingalls Wilder "Little House in the Big Woods".
Every September during Laura Ingalls Wilder Days you and your family can enjoy a festival of traditional music & crafts, sunbonnets, quilts, pioneer games, the Pepin Laura Contest, and an old-fashioned small town parade, Laura Ingalls Wilder Days is a destination for family-friendly fun on the banks of the Mississippi River in Pepin, Wisconsin.
Laura Days 2015 will be held this coming September 12th and 13th. That's Saturday and Sunday. Keep visiting this website or 'Like' us on Face Book to stay up to date as new information will be posted as we get closer to the date.
Visit our website at: www.LauraDays.orgfor up-to-date information.
