All About Dr. Seuss
"OH,  								THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! 
 								THERE IS FUN TO BE DONE! THERE ARE
 								POINTS TO BE SCORED. THERE ARE GAMES TO BE WON."
 								From: Oh, The Places You'll Go! 
Theodor Seuss Geisel, better known to the world  								as the beloved Dr. Seuss, was born in 1904 on Howard Street in  								Springfield, Massachusetts. Ted's father, Theodor Robert, and  								grandfather were brewmasters in the city. His mother, Henrietta  								Seuss Geisel, often soothed her children to sleep by "chanting"  								rhymes remembered from her youth. Ted credited his mother with  								both his ability and desire to create the rhymes for which he  								became so well known. 
 								Although the Geisels enjoyed great financial success for many  								years, the onset of World War I and Prohibition presented both  								financial and social challenges for the German immigrants. Nonetheless,  								the family persevered and again prospered, providing Ted and his  								sister, Marnie, with happy childhoods.
 								The influence of Ted's memories of Springfield can be seen throughout  								his work. Drawings of Horton the Elephant meandering along streams  								in the Jungle of Nool, for example, mirror the watercourses in  								Springfield's Forest Park from the period. The fanciful truck  								driven by Sylvester McMonkey McBean in The  								Sneetches could well be the Knox tractor that young  								Ted saw on the streets of Springfield. In addition to its name,  								Ted's first children's book, And To Think  								That I Saw It On Mulberry Street,  								is filled with Springfield imagery, including a look-alike of  								Mayor Fordis Parker on the reviewing stand, and police officers  								riding red motorcycles, the traditional color of Springfield's  								famed Indian Motocycles.
 								Ted left Springfield as a teenager to attend Dartmouth College,  								where he became editor-in-chief of the Jack-O-Lantern,  								Dartmouth's humor magazine. Although his tenure as editor ended  								prematurely when Ted and his friends were caught throwing a drinking  								party, which was against the prohibition laws and school policy,  								he continued to contribute to the magazine, signing his work "Seuss."  								This is the first record of the  								"Seuss" pseudonym, which was both Ted's middle name  								and his mother's maiden name. 
 								To please his father, who wanted him to be a college professor,  								Ted went on to Oxford University in England after graduation.  								However, his academic studies bored him, and he decided to tour  								Europe instead. Oxford did provide him the opportunity to meet  								a classmate, Helen Palmer, who not only became his first wife,  								but also a children's author and book editor.
 								After returning to the United States, Ted began to pursue a career  								as a cartoonist. The Saturday Evening Post and other publications  								published some of his early pieces, but the bulk of Ted's activity  								during his early career was devoted to creating advertising campaigns  								for Standard Oil, which he did for more than 15 years. 
 								As World War II approached, Ted's focus shifted, and he began  								contributing weekly political cartoons to PM magazine,  								a liberal publication. Too old for the draft, but wanting to contribute  								to the war effort, Ted served with Frank Capra's Signal Corps  								(U.S. Army) making training movies. It was here that he was introduced  								to the art of animation and developed a series of animated training  								films featuring a trainee called Private Snafu.
 								While Ted was continuing to contribute to  								Life, Vanity Fair, Judge and other magazines, Viking  								Press offered him a contract to illustrate a collection of children's  								sayings called Boners. Although  								the book was not a commercial success, the illustrations received  								great reviews, providing Ted with his first "big break"  								into children's literature. Getting the first book that he both  								wrote and illustrated, And to Think That  								I Saw It on Mulberry Street, published, however, required  								a great degree of persistence - it was rejected 27 times before  								being published by Vanguard Press.
The Cat in the Hat, perhaps  								the defining book of Ted's career, developed as part of a unique  								joint venture between Houghton Mifflin (Vanguard Press) and Random  								House. Houghton Mifflin asked Ted to write and illustrate a children's  								primer using only 225 "new-reader" vocabulary words.  								Because he was under contract to Random House, Random House obtained  								the trade publication rights, and Houghton Mifflin kept the school  								rights. With the release of The Cat in  								the Hat, Ted became the definitive children's book  								author and illustrator.
 								After Ted's first wife died in 1967, Ted married an old friend,  								Audrey Stone Geisel, who not only influenced his later books,  								but now guards his legacy as the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises.
 								At the time of his death on September 24, 1991, Ted had written  								and illustrated 44 children's books, including such all-time favorites  								as Green Eggs and Ham, Oh, the Places  								You'll Go, Fox in Socks, and How  								the Grinch Stole Christmas. His books had been translated  								into more than 15 languages. Over 200 million copies had found  								their way into homes and hearts around the world.
 								Besides the books, his works have provided the source for eleven  								children's television specials, a Broadway musical and a feature-length  								motion picture. Other major motion pictures are on the way.
 								His honors included two Academy awards, two Emmy awards, a Peabody  								award and the Pulitzer Prize. 
