Six days after stepping down as co-chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment,Amy Pascal broke her silence onWednesday at the Women in the World conference in San Francisco during a candid interview with journalist Tina Brown.
All the women here are doing incredible things in this world. All I did was get fired, she said, according to the Recode site.
Among the topics discussed were the hackedemailsbetween herself and producer Scott Rudin, the poor reviews for The Interview and Hollywoods pervasive gender gap.
Pascal recounted the moment in November when she realized that her emails at Sony would be exposed.
I ran this company and I had to worry about everybody who was really scaredPeople were really scaredBut nagging in the back of my mind, I kept calling (the IT department) and being like, They dont have our emails, tell me they dont have our emails, she said. But then they did. That was a bad moment. And you know what you write in emails.
Right off the bat, Brownqueried Pascal on the racial emails between her and producer Scott Rudin about President Obama, causing the 56-year-old execto shake her head.
It was horrible. That was horrible, Pascal said. As a woman, what I did was control how everybody felt about themselves and about meand there was this horrible moment when I realized there was absolutely nothing I could do about whether Id hurt people, whether Id betrayed people.
Pascal also said, There is nothing you can do. You cant say anything. You cant explain anything. Its just there.
As for her exchanges on Jolie, who Rudin called aminimally talented spoiled brat, she said: Angie didnt care.
Everybody understood because we all live in this weird thing called Hollywood, she said. If we were all actually were nice, it wouldnt work.
When asked about paying Jennifer Lawrence less than her male co-stars in American Hustle, Pascal scoffed.
Ive paid (Lawrence) a lot more money since then, I promise youHeres the problem: I run a business. People want to work for less money, Ipay them less moneyWomen shouldnt be so grateful. Know what youre worth. Walk away.
Brown later said that The Interview was a pretty bad movie, to which Pascal replied, You dont get to choose what you stand up for.
This past week, Sony Pictures Entertainment announced a partnership to make new Spider-Man movies with Marvel Studios, which Pascal will produceas part of her new studio deal with Sony.
The worst thing you can do is be on the sideline, she said.
The studio also recently announced an all-female Ghostbusters reboot with Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy.
Its about time we have a female action series, Pascal declared.
As for themost important thing she learned from the hacked emails? Say exactly what you think directly to people all the time, she said. In the moment, the first time.
When Brown countered that Hollywood stars were sensitive than most people, Pascal snickered.
Theyre bottomless pits of need. Youve never seen anything like it, she said. Then added sarcastically:They are so great. Theyre this magical thing that no one else can be. Theyre filled with the need to be loved  but thats because theyre magical.
The executive also had harsh words for the press when asked if she was surprised about the reaction to her emails.
Im not supposed to say anything about that, she said. But I will say that I was. People found reasons that going through my trash and printing it was an ok thing to do. They found a way to justify that. And they have to live with that.
Oh, Angelina cares alright. She knows that Rudin only said what probably most of Hollywood is thinking. Her super huge ego wasnt bothered by it until it was made public though, she was able to ignore it. My feeling is that she was the subject of that Sony leak because she was getting far too arrogant and someone felt the need to slap her down and remind her that her superstar saint image is just that, an image. She can be brought down as quickly as she was raised if shes no longer useful and pushing whatever agenda it is they want pushed and shed better not forget it. I think she was seriously shaken by it because she really, honestly, believed that she was untouchable (in part due to her personality disorder, Im sure). I think Pitt thought so too and hes shtting himself now and desperately looking for an exit strategy. Shes a liability now and its only a matter of time before it all comes crashing down. JMO.
As a general comment its stunning who the hell these billion dollar corporations hire to run their prized assets (Sony giving the reins of their huge content provider Sony Studios to Amy).  Im sure Amys a nice enough person and a decent producer but her actions and comments are pure amateur hour for someone who is in charge of such a large operation and has thousands of people under them.  You do see this over the years where a studio will hire a good producer to run things and it just seems to never work out well.  Its like in the real world, I worked at at large corp where they promoted the top salesman to be the North American sales manager and it was a disaster.  But then you look at Paramount and Sherry Lansing did a really good job as the Prez and was a pretty good producer too, who knows but the bottom line was Amy had to go for the poison she had spread in those emails.
Sorry but lets get some perspective on this.
 Yes she is a woman  but that is no reason for her actions or behaviour. She did not run the company single handedly. She supposedly started at the bottom. In true Hollywood style we have heard about the post room rise to successes before. Just because she is a woman should this even more of an accolade. We all know in film it is not what you know but who you know that gets you jobs, commissions and success. There are plenty of great bright smart filmmakers out there.
 If you are sat in a corporation on your Sony owned blackberry or laptop you have a responsibility to ensure you follow the code of conduct and practice. Mocking races, people and being a general vile person is no excuse. She should have been marched out and left. But no she got a handsome paycheck to be a producer in the same building. So pray tell what have we actually witnessed? Please do not patronise the cause now by parading to every Womens event and professing to do it all for women and be interviewed by her elite friends.
Annoying as hell.  She is not smart with her life and personal decisions, tactful or race or person aware. Life skills can not be replaced by excuses. Man, woman, black or white  its the same treatment and a corporate has accountability and responsibility to show the door and close it.
