Amy Pascal broke her silence today at the Women in the World conference at the St. Regis Hotel in downtown San Francisco, in an onstage interview with journalistTina Brown.
All the women here are doing incredible things in this world. All I did was get fired, said the departing Sony Pictures Entertainment co-chairperson, settling in for a free-flowing conversation with Brown. Everyone knows everything about me. What am I doing here?
Brownanswered that for her.
None of us can imagine  Brown said.
No, you cannot, Pascal said.
Pascals digital record came intothe spotlight when North Korea hacked Sony inretaliation for producing The Interview, a slapstick comedy aboutjournalists sent to assassinatethat countryssupreme leader, Kim Jong-un.The hackers exposed thousands of internal emails, includingPascals ALL-CAPS-laced missivesabout celebrities anda racially charged joke about President Obama. This week, she announced shell bestepping down tojoin the Spider-man productionteamin May (and receive close to a $40 million production/parachute package over the next four years).
During cocktails before she took the stage, Brown said Pascal decided to speak publicly in San Francisco for the first time because the timing was good. And in [her] home town, its a little too hot right now.
After a dramaticvideo intro that featured footage of an explosion to indicate the hacking, Brown asked Pascal to recount the moment when shefirst realizedthather emails would be exposed.
I ran this company and I hadto worry about everybody who was really scared.  People were really scared. But nagging in the back of my mind, I kept calling [IT] and being like, They dont have our emails, tell me they dont have our emails,' she said.But then they did. That was a bad moment. And you knowwhat you write in emails.
We know exactly what she writes in her emails.
Pascal  who dressed casually inclogheels and a leopard-print wrap tied around her waist  said her off-the-cuff emails with Sony producer Scott Rudin were the result of a 30-year-relationship, an ongoing fight and playfulrole-playing since the day they met.
Brown brought up the Obama emails right away: They accused you of being a racist, she said.
It was horrible. That was horrible, Pascal said, tossing her hair and then brushing it out of her face, lookingalmost teary-eyed for a moment.
As a woman, what I did was control how everybody felt about themselves and about me  and there was this horriblemoment when Irealizedthere was absolutely nothing Icould do about whether Id hurt people, whether Id betrayed people, she said. Icouldnt protect anyone.  It was horrible becausethats how I did my job.
She paused and then said something surprising.
It was also strangely freeing, she said, looking at Brown. Because all of a sudden, that was just what it was.
Pascal continued: There is nothing you can do. You cant say anything.You cant explain anything. Its justthere.
Brown mentioned that The Interview was actually a pretty bad movie (no Citizen Kane, she said). Pascal had a quick retort: You dont get to choose what you stand up for.
Relationships had been less damaged than people outside Hollywood may think because it is a unique kind of town, Pascal said.
Everybody understood because we all live in this weird thing called Hollywood, she said. If we all actually were nice, it wouldnt work.
For example, even though Rudin called Angelina Jolie aminimally talented spoiled brat, Pascal said: Angie didnt care.
Was she surprised that the press were so harsh?
Im not supposed to say anything about that, she said, looking out at the audience coyly. But I will say that I was. People found reasons that going through my trash and printing it was an okay thing to do. They found a way to justify that. And they have to live withthat.
Among the leaks was detailed payment information that showed women were paid less than men: Ive paid [Jennifer Lawrence]a lot more money since then, I promise you.  Heres the problem: I run a business. People want to work for less money, Ipay them less money.  Women shouldnt work for less money. They should know what theyre worth. Women shouldnt take less. Stop, you dont need the job that bad.'
She said shes learned a lot from the hack about how to relate to people.
You should always say exactly what you think directly to people all the time, she said. In the moment, the first time.
Brown said this might be hard to do given how vulnerable Hollywood stars can be.
Pascal unleashed a little of the energy found in those emails.
Theyre bottomless pits of need. Youve never seen anything like it, she said, adding sarcastically: They are so great. Theyre this magical thing that no one else can be. Theyre filled with the need to be loved  but thats because theyre magical.
