Anthony Mason, a longtime NBA player who helped the New York Knicks reach the 1994 NBA Finals, has died at the age of 48.
A Knicks spokesperson confirmed to ESPN that Mason died early Saturday morning. The 13-year NBA veteran had been diagnosed with congestive heart failure earlier this month.
"First I want to thank all those who offered prayers and well-wishes for my Father, our family really appreciates it," his son, Anthony Mason Jr., said in a statement Saturday. "Overnight, New York City and the world lost a legend, a friend, a brother ... but more than anything our father, Anthony Mason. As you all would expect our father -- Big Mase -- put up an incredible fight, dealing with a severe heart issue. I'm wishing this was something else I was writing, but Pops we've got to let you know we love you and know you'll always be with us."
The Knicks held a moment of silence for Mason before Saturday night's 103-98 win against the Toronto Raptorsand aired a video tribute during the game.
Mason's other son,Antoine, is a senior basketball player atAuburn, which played atTexas A&M on Saturday. The Aggies held a moment of silence for the elder Mason. 
Antoine Mason had said earlier this week that his father was "getting better" following multiple heart surgeries.
Mason's family released a statement Saturday morning, saying that he "fought like a warrior to the very end."
"We would like to thank everyone for their heartfelt thoughts and strong prayers," the statement said. "Anthony felt each and every one. He fought like a warrior to the very end. Please keep your prayers and thoughts with us through this very hard time -- it is a great loss for us. We ask for our privacy during this time."
Mason played for six teams but was best remembered for his five-year tenure with the Knicks. Mason's bruising, physical play epitomized then-coach Pat Riley's Knicks teams. The 6-foot-7 forward became a fan favorite for his physical play and also drew attention for the creative artwork and messages he had carved in his haircuts.
"Anthony Mason exemplified perseverance for all players fighting for their chance in the NBA," NBA commissioner Adam Silver said. "NBA fans and players around the league admired his tenacity on defense and playmaking on offense."
Mason teamed with Patrick Ewing, Charles Oakley and John Starks to help the Knicks win the Eastern Conference in 1994 and reach the NBA Finals, where they lost to the Houston Rockets in seven games.
"My heart is heavy after learning that we lost Anthony Mason last night," Ewing said in a statement. "We were teammates on the Knicks for five great seasons. Mase came to play every night and was always ready to go to battle with me every time we stepped on the court together.
"I will remember him for his strength, determination and perseverance. My thoughts are with his family. May he rest in peace."
Oakley took to Twitter to send his condolences.
Knicks president Phil Jackson, who coached against Mason during his time with theChicago Bulls, also released a statement Saturday.
"As a competitor, there was none fiercer than Anthony Mason," Jackson said. "Standing on the opposite end of the playing field, coaching in those great Chicago/New York battles, No. 14 in Orange and Blue always stood out. On behalf of the entire Knickerbocker community, our condolences go out to his family."
Mason won the NBA's Sixth Man Award in 1994-95 as a member of the Knicks. He also played with the Charlotte Hornets, Milwaukee Bucks and Miami Heat following his stint with the Knicks.
The Knicks have been unable to duplicate their success of the 1990s, and coach Derek Fisher said Mason's determination could serve as a guide.
"He embodied a lot of what we're continuing to try to do here," Fisher said.
"Anthony was a multifaceted individual," his longtime agent, Don Cronson, told ESPN.com's Ian O'Connor. "There were many aspects to his personality, and some that people weren't aware of. In the best sense of the term he was a momma's boy. From the day I met him he was always thinking of his mom and taking care of her. As rough and tough as he was, Anthony was also a doting father, and I saw that many times.
"Anthony willed himself into the NBA, and very few players can do that. Any NBA team could've had him for a nickel, and he turned out to be the perfect Pat Riley player. I think Pat saw a lot of himself in Anthony, and really they were the same guy. That's why they butted heads as often as they did. They were both blue-collar guys and fighters. Anthony told me, 'Pat Riley was the one who gave me my chance. He's the one who saw something in me when nobody else did.'"
Mason was reunited with Riley later in his career while playing for Miami, where he was named to his one and only All-Star team in 2001.
The Heat also held a moment of silence for Mason before Saturday's 93-91 loss to the Hawks.
Mason's career is a story of perseverance.
After playing high school basketball at Springfield Gardens in Queens and college basketball at Tennessee State University, Mason was selected in the third round of the 1988 NBA draft by the Portland Trail Blazers, who waived him shortly thereafter.
Mason then played in Turkey and Venezuela before joining the New Jersey Nets and Denver Nuggets for short stints. He also played in the USBL and CBA.
Mason found a permanent home with the Knicks in 1991 after receiving an invite to play on the organization's summer league team.
Riley appreciated Mason's intense, physical approach and kept him on the roster, beginning a run that would end with Mason leaving an indelible mark on the Knicks organization and its fan base.
"News like this is not only sad, but it's tragic," Riley said. "Anthony Mason was a very young man with a great family and friends. To lose him so quickly during his journey, especially to those of us that knew him, hurts."
ESPNNewYork.com's Ian Begley and Ian O'Connor and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
