Shop some of the best luxury boutiques in the world including Burberry, Saint Laurent and Tourneau, as well as a local boutique, The Webster  creating an inspired journey when you stay two nights or more.
Shop some of the best luxury boutiques in the world including Burberry, Saint Laurent and Tourneau, as well as a local boutique, The Webster  creating an inspired journey when you stay two nights or more.
In this issue, we explore some of the most amazing places in the world and the invigorating moments that truly immerse you in the culture, cuisine, art, and people. Best of all, we share many different ways you can make a journey uniquely yours.
Connecting you to the heart of prestigious Marina Bay, where business, fashion, art and entertainment blend into a dynamic playground for the discerning traveler.
From Pezula South Africa to Maldives, discover some of the worlds most captivating destinations.
An exclusive retreat at the hub of Istanbuls culture and commerce.
 The global leader in hospitality with more than 530 hotels & resorts across six continents. 
 The luxury brand offering a unique service experience and the worlds landmark hotels.  
 A world of style, service and connection for todays sophisticated traveler. 
 Canopy is the fresh, neighborhood hotel that delivers a positive stay.  
 A collection of unique hotels appealing to travelers seeking local discovery. 
 Warm. Comfortable. Smart. The hotel that turns travel into a human experience again. 
 Enjoy a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast and more at our upscale all-suite hotels. 
 Treat yourself with amenities that help you work smarter, eat well, sleep deeply and stay fit.  
 Count on Hampton to deliver quality, value, consistency and service with a smile.  
 Whether youre traveling for a few nights or a few months, you can Make Yourself at Home. 
 Introducing Home2 Suites by Hilton  an all-suite brand of extended stay hotels.  
 Enjoy all of the benefits of owning your own vacation home  with none of the hassles.  
