Automobility Program, Avenger, Blacktop, Caliber, Challenger, Challenger SRT Hellcat, Charger, Citadel, Crosshair Grille, Dart, Dart Aero, Daytona, Durango, Durango Crew, Grand Caravan, Grand Caravan Crew, HEMI, 392 HEMI, Journey, Journey Crew, Mopar Vehicle Protection, ParkSense, ParkView, Pentastar, R/T, Sentry Key, SRT8, SRT Hellcat, Super Bee, SXT, the Ram's Head logo, TechAuthority, Tigershark, Uconnect, VES, Viper and Yellow Jacket are registered trademarks and Crossroad, Keyless Enter 'n Go, Scat Pack and the Scat Pack Bee Design are trademarks of FCA US LLC
MultiAir is a registered trademark of C.R.F. Societ Consortile per Azioni,  used with permission.
Alfa Romeo is a registered trademark of Fiat Group Marketing & Corporate Communication S.p.A., used  with permission.
Chrysler Capital is a registered trademark of FCA US LLC and licensed to Santander Consumer USA Inc. Lease agreements are owned by CCAP Auto Lease Ltd. and serviced by Chrysler Capital.
The Facebook logo is a registered trademark of Facebook, Inc.
The Twitter bird is a trademark of Twitter, Inc.
The Pinterest logo is a trademark of Pinterest, Inc.
The YouTube logo is a registered trademark of Google Inc.
Alpine is a registered trademark of Boston Acoustics, Inc.
Harman Kardon is a registered trademark of Harman International Industries, Inc.
Blu-ray is a trademark of the Blu-ray Disc Association.
Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG, Inc.
Sirius, XM and all related marks and logos are trademarks of SiriusXM Radio Inc.
Alpine and the Alpine logo are registered trademarks of Alpine Electronics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Ally is a registered service mark of Ally Financial.
iPod is a registered trademark of Apple Inc.
Garmin is a registered trademark of Garmin Ltd.
Infinity is a registered trademark of Harman International Industries Inc.
HomeLink is a registered trademark of Johnson Controls Technology Company.
TREMEC is a registered trademark of Transmisiones Y Equipos Mecanicos, S.A. de C.V.
Thule is a registered trademark of Thule, Inc.
eSSENTIAL Accessibility and the eSSENTIAL Accessibility logos are registered trademarks of eSSENTIAL Accessibility Inc.
The trademarks Beats by Dr. Dre, Beats, Beats Audio, and the b logo are the property of Beats Electronics, LLC.
Ward's is a trademark of Penton Business Media, Inc.
Strategic Vision, Total Value Award and New Vehicle Experience Study are registered trademarks of Darrel Edwards, Inc.
Automotive News is a registered trademark of Crains Communications, Inc.
Kelley Blue Book is a registered trademark of Kelley Blue Book Co., Inc.
USAA is a registered trademark of United Services Automobile Association.
Katzkin is a registered trademark of Katzkin Leather Interiors, Inc.
Boston Acoustics is a registered trademark of Boston Acoustics, Inc.
Pandora is a registered trademark of Pandora Media, Inc.
Yelp is a registered trademark of Yelp Inc.
The information on this website is intended to provide only an outline of the coverages, benefits and exclusions regarding Mopar Vehicle Protection Plans as offered and issued by FCA US LLC or a subsidiary. FL Lic. #65505. CA Lic. #0G94472. Services/component repairs made prior to the purchase of a plan are not covered. Complete details and coverage are provided in the Plan Provisions. All transactions relating to any plan are governed solely by the Plan Provisions of the purchased plan.
Chrysler Group Service Contracts LLC (CGSC LLC) is a wholly owned subsidiary of FCA US LLC.
Your Plan is sold and administered by CGSC LLC if you purchased your Plan in: Florida, Hawaii, Maine, Mississippi, Montana, Oregon, Puerto Rico, Texas, Virginia, Washington or Wyoming.
Your Plan is sold and administered by CGSC LLC if your Plan covers an FCA US vehicle and you purchased your plan in: New Mexico.
Your Plan is sold and administered by CGSC LLC if your Plan covers a non-FCA US vehicle and you purchased your Plan in: Alabama, California, Illinois, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, South Carolina, Utah or Vermont.
FCA US Vehicle means Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge, Ram, SRT, FIAT or Alfa Romeo brand vehicles only.
*MSRP excludes destination, taxes, title and registration fees. Starting at price refers to the base model, optional equipment not included. A more expensive model may be shown. Pricing and offers may change at any time without notification. To get full pricing details, see your dealer.
