GLAMOUR's Leanne Bayley interviewed Rita Ora last  week as she celebratedthe 100thanniversary of the  iconic Coca-Cola  bottle. Rita was certainly dressed for the occasion; wearing a  bespoke red Veni Vici dress complete with Sophia Webster shoes  decorated with Coca-Cola bottles all over. Read what Rita had to  say about the possibility of her own fashion collection, her  sparkling movie career and how excited she is to return as Mia Grey  in Fifty Shades of Grey...
Hi Rita, this is a very exciting series of  The Voice - thanks to you - how are you finding the  experience?
That's really nice of you, well I'm happy that it came across so  well and the ratings came in so great, because it really is a great  show. It just needed just that little push, and I think that me  being my age and speaking for my generation kind of helped it out a  little. It's amazing, all the coaches offer different aspects of  the music industry, so I feel like it was only a matter of time and  I'm very happy that I chose to do it.
You must see loads of tweets, how do you  think you're coming across to the British public?
It's a great response. The first one to four episodes I wasn't  actually in the country, I was in LA, so all I had was the Twitter  responses. So I was reading them and reading them like, 'What's  going on?!' Asking my friends to FaceTime me! The reaction was  surprisingly great and I'm very happy I chose to be myself.
Everyone talks about the other coaches, but  do you hang out with Emma Willis and Marvin Humes in between  takes?
Ah bless them! Yeah, of course, they're funny but they actually  have a lot of work to do, we have more breaks than they do. They  start very, very early.
Would you ever duet with any of your Voice  colleagues?
As in the fellow coaches? Yeah! I would love to, I mean, I'm  working next to a bunch of legends, especially Sir Tom. You never  know, maybe, there might be a massive Voice soundtrack!
You went brunette for Fifty Shades of Grey -  how was the experience on set?
That was amazing, it was great because it's a really cool  ongoing sequel, so it's only gonna grow, and this was honestly such  a quick cameo. And if you read the novel, my character is really  actually in it for that amount of time. Moving forward, it's gonna  be very exciting to get back into it.
Do you have any news on Fifty Shades  Darker?
Well I do know that it is in the very early stages, so I don't  know that much. But I can't wait to know, because trust me, I'll be  the first to be like, "Rah!"
Would you like to go into more acting?
Yes, I'd love to do more acting, I think it's something I'm  definitely passionate about. It has to be the right role, the right  story.
We can imagine you as a kick ass  superhero...
I've said I want to be a superhero one day. But I just did  something for the Weinstein Company, with an amazing director  called Antoine Fuqua, and it's called Southpaw. It's about  a boxer, Southpaw, played by Jake Gyllenhaal, and it's a very  exciting movie. I love it, I can't wait to be in it, I play a real  controversial cameo, but it's also about building, building and  building and building [up my experience in movies].
You've obviously done some amazing  collaborations - we love your Adidas collection - but would you  ever do your own brand or own collection that's just you?
Oh my god, of course. I think this is an amazing opportunity to  lay my foundation to learn as much as I can, even though it's a  sports brand it's still got a lot of history and an amazing team. I  made sure I visited all of the factories and sketched up everything  - even though I can't draw - I looked at all the fabrics. I wanted  to learn as much as possible, it takes a lot of time, but it's  okay, I love doing it. And one day in the future, one hundred  percent, I want my own label.
And how would you envisage it to be?
It will definitely be 'out there', I don't know where I'll be  creatively at that point, but whenever I'm ready, it'll definitely  be out there and kind of colourful maybe.
You're very close to your personal stylist,  describe the bond you have, and do you always agree on style?
Yeah, it comes from being honest and standing your ground.  Sometimes he comes in with a vision and says 'this is what I feel  like it needs to be', and I think it works. He uses his experience  and his research, whereas I just follow my gut. Sometimes he shows  me, and I'm like 'No, not today', and he's like, 'What, I don't  understand, you liked it yesterday?' And I'm like, 'Yeah, well, not  today'. I go with my gut but at the end of the day, my two points  are, being as glamorous as possible, and being as sexy as you can  be.
And who do you think is a timeless icon, in  style and in beauty?
Keira Knightley, she is a beautiful, English actress. She is a  real English rose, and very pure, and I like that about her. And  she's an incredible actress. She's gorgeous.
Diana Ross.
That would be so good! Feather boas, get  them out.
Yes! And lots of sequin dresses.
We interviewed Charli XCX, and when we asked  her who she would like to have a party in Topshop with, after dark,  she said you...
Ah yeah! Charli's like a little party, I love her, she is one of  the nicest people I've ever met in this industry, she's one of the  best songwriters and pop stars. But she is rock 'n' roll man, we  did a song together because I respect her individuality, I love  that she just wears what she wants.
She's really feisty as well.
She is feisty. She is like, everything that I love about this  industry, and there's a lot of things to hate, so she's everything  I love about it.
