                                                              Against my better judgement, I decided to view the film "Fifty Shades of Grey." This "film" is essentially a overly sensual build-up to a BDSM moment that honestly never pays off, and leaves you hanging more than any cliffhanger could think of doing in years. With no real story and no real ending, this film is a pile of sappy and creepy scenes slapped together, with great lighting, camerawork, and a solid performance by Dakota Johnson. Overall, "Fifty Shades of Grey" does not in any way live up to it's hype and I felt like I wasted two hours of my life. The fact that I had a blast laughing at the dialogue that was supposed to be seductive was enough to let me have a bit of fun and not completely trash this film. In the end, it is a horrendously written film , with poor direction, terrible chemistry, and a conclusion that is pointless, just like the events preceding it. I will not ever be excited for a sequel to this film. While not exactly as atrociously bad as I was expecting, "Fifty Shades of Grey" is a lifeless picture. Stay far away.                   
                                                              Sam Taylor-Johnson's adaptation of Fifty Shades of Grey puts emphasis on the Grey.  The color grey; as in bland.
For a 2 hour story surrounding kinky sex, there is very little in the way of arousing excitement.  The story is thin and it never seems to be heading in a forward direction.  Integral plot details are far and few in between, leaving the sex to stand out.
On the subject of sex, there are a number of erotic scenes with a bunch of buildup for them.  To associate with the R-rating, these scenes never fully engulf what makes the Fifty Shades of Grey what it's meant to be.  Possible pushing to the NC-17 rating is what is needed.
Dakota Johnson and Jamie Dornan are attractive in their own right, but viewing their performances is very tiring.  Maybe the characters are meant to be this way, but it's easier to read then view on screen.
Fifty Shades of Grey does have a few moments, and only a few.  Easily passable.                   
