NOW AN ORIGINAL SERIES ON ABC  Just may be the best new comedy of [the year] . . . based on restaurateur Eddie Huangs memoir of the same name . . . [a] classic fresh-out-of-water comedy.People
Bawdy and frequently hilarious . . . a surprisingly sophisticated memoir about race and assimilation in America . . . as much James Baldwin and Jay-Z as Amy Tan . . . rowdy [and] vital . . . Its a book about fitting in by not fitting in at all.Dwight Garner, The New York Times
NATIONAL BESTSELLER  NAMED ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS OF THE YEAR BY KIRKUS REVIEWS
  Assimilating aint easy. Eddie Huang was raised by a wild family of FOB (fresh off the boat) immigrantshis father a cocksure restaurateur with a dark past back in Taiwan, his mother a fierce protector and constant threat. Young Eddie tried his hand at everything mainstream America threw his way, from white Jesus to macaroni and cheese, but finally found his home as leader of a rainbow coalition of lost boys up to no good: skate punks, dealers, hip-hop junkies, and sneaker freaks. This is the story of a Chinese-American kid in a could-be-anywhere cul-de-sac blazing his way through Americas deviant subcultures, trying to find himself, ten thousand miles from his legacy and anchored only by his conflicted love for his family and his passion for food. Funny, moving, and stylistically inventive, Fresh Off the Boat is more than a radical reimagining of the immigrant memoirits the exhilarating story of every American outsider who finds his destiny in the margins.
Praise for Fresh Off the Boat
  Brash and funny . . . outrageous, courageous, moving, ironic and true.New York Times Book Review
  Mercilessly funny and provocative, Fresh Off the Boat is also a serious piece of work. Eddie Huang is hunting nothing less than Big Game here. He does everything with style.Anthony Bourdain
  Uproariously funny . . . emotionally honest.Chicago Tribune
  Huang is a fearless raconteur. [His] writing is at once hilarious and provocative; his incisive wit pulls through like a perfect plate of dan dan noodles.Interview
  Although writing a memoir is an audacious act for a thirty-year-old, it is not nearly as audacious as some of the things Huang did and survived even earlier. . . . Whatever he ends up doing, you can be sure it wont look or sound like anything thats come before. A single, kinetic passage from Fresh Off the Boat . . . is all you need to get that straight.Bookforum
Anybody who has ever watched restaurateur Eddie Huang on his food shows or chowed down at his trendy East Village eatery will want to read Fresh Off the Boat, but this memoir deserves a far larger audience than the already gastronomically-converted. Even non-foodies will enjoy Huang's brisk, candid confessions about his sometimes outrageous attempts to assimilate to American ways without losing touch with his parents' Taiwanese roots. Fortunately, his candor is matched by his wit; his fumbling, far-flung quests for identity become a joy ride for readers. Another tasty cross-cultural concoction by Eddie Huang.
Brash and funny . . . outrageous, courageous, moving, ironic and true.New York Times Book Review 
  Mercilessly funny and provocative, Fresh Off the Boat is also a serious piece of work. Eddie Huang is hunting nothing less than Big Game here. He does everything with style.Anthony Bourdain
  Bawdy and frequently hilarious . . . a surprisingly sophisticated memoir about race and assimilation in America . . . as much James Baldwin and Jay-Z as Amy Tan . . . rowdy [and] vital . . . Its a book about fitting in by not fitting in at all.Dwight Garner, The New York Times
  Uproariously funny . . . emotionally honest.Chicago Tribune
  Huang is a fearless raconteur. [His] writing is at once hilarious and provocative; his incisive wit pulls through like a perfect plate of dan dan noodles.Interview
  Although writing a memoir is an audacious act for a thirty-year-old, it is not nearly as audacious as some of the things Huang did and survived even earlier. . . . Whatever he ends up doing, you can be sure it wont look or sound like anything thats come before. A single, kinetic passage from Fresh Off the Boat . . . is all you need to get that straight.Bookforum  
Fresh Off the Boat is a surprisingly sophisticated memoir about race and assimilation in America. It's an angry book, as much James Baldwin and Jay-Z as Amy Tan. That it's also bawdy and frequently hilarious nearly, if not entirely, seals the dealIt's a rowdy and, in its way, vital counterpoint to the many dignified and more self-consciously literary memoirs we have about immigration and assimilation. It's a book about fitting in by not fitting in at all.  
Hipster restaurateur Huang takes the American dream and tilts it a few degrees off center in this rambling saga of his trek through a childhood and adolescence marked by hip-hop, law school, arrests, and a fair amount of troublemaking. He explodes the model minority myth in his chronicle of growing up as the problem child of a family of Taiwanese immigrants in a country where an Asian face causes a lot of preconceptions. What value stays with him all along? No spoiler alert is needed to say that its a love of food. VERDICT While there is probably no other paean to that iconic Thanksgiving side dishthe green bean casserolein recent literature, Huangs in-your-face delivery of his scramble to succeed will appeal to foodies out there who are too cool for school. 
(c) Copyright 2013. Library Journals LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Media Source, Inc. No redistribution permitted.
Up-and-coming celebrity chef Huang serves up a raw memoir recounting his life as an angry young man chafing under generations of stifling Chinese tradition and all-encompassing American "whiteness." Three things inform the multitalented restaurateur's identity: food, basketball and hip-hop. Although not necessarily in that order, each is infused in virtually every sentence, many of which are laugh-out-loud funny. All three provided the socially conscious author with the succor he needed to make it as an Asian "OutKast" growing up in the Deep South. The son of a former Taiwanese gangster father and a money-obsessed mother, Huang spent his formative years posting up with his style-obsessed buddies and generally bucking authority and the status quo. The author renders his portraits of his many colorful friends and family as vividly and spectacularly as his recipe for beef noodle soup. Huang may have an opinion on everything from religion to RZA, but his deeply contemplative nature deflects any accusations of self-righteousness. His history of violence is more problematic, however. Physical violence both on the streets and inside the home punctuated the author's younger years, and while the latter is thoughtfully unpacked and explored, the former is too often glorified. It could have all easily gone quite differently for Huang. At one point, he was arrested after driving a car into a crowd of threatening rivals and was packed off to Taiwan in order to escape punishment. However, he used the opportunity to reconcile his Asian heritage and focus his unrelenting energy on the things he really wanted out of life. The inspiring result became his trendsetting East Village eatery, Baohaus. A unique voice with a provocative point of view.  
Meet the Parents
The soup dumplings are off today! Grandpa said.
Should we tell the waiter? We should send these back.
No, no, no, no, no, dont lose face over soup dumplings. Just eat them.
My mom always wanted to send food back. Everything on the side, some things hot, some things cold, no MSG, less oil, more chilis, oh, and some vinegar please. Black vinegar with green chilis if you have it, if not, red vinegar with ginger, and if you dont have that, then just white vinegar by itself and a can of Coke, not diet because diet causes cancer.
Microwaves cause cancer, too, so she buys a Foreman grill and wears a SARS mask because oil fumes can ruin lungs, says the woman who smokes Capri cigarettes and drives an SUV wearing a visor. Thats my mom.
I couldnt eat with my mom; she drove me crazy. But she never bothered my grandfather. He was always above the trees. Like 3 Stacks said, Whats cooler than cool? Ice cold. That was Grandpa: a six-foot-tall, long faced, droopy-eyed Chinaman who subsisted on a cocktail of KFC, boiled peanuts, and cigarettes. Thinking back on it, my grandfather created the ultimate recipe for pancreatic cancer. At the time we had that lunch, hed been battling it for a while, but we tried not to talk about it. That day, we just ate soup dumplings.
Its the meat, did they not put enough ginger? Mei you xiang wei dao.
Eh, theres ginger, its just heavy-handed. Who cares, just eat them! The rest of the food is on the way.
Xiang wei is the character a good dish has when its robust, flavorful, and balanced but still maintains a certain light quality. That flavor comes, lingers on your tongue, stays long enough to make you crave it, but just when you think you have it figured out, its gone. Timing is everything. Soup dumplings, sitcoms, one-night standsgood ones leave you wanting more.
The perfect soup dumpling has nineteen folds. Taipeis Din Tai Fung restaurant figured this out in the mid-eighties. While Americans had Pyrex visions, Taiwan was focused on soup dumplings. My grandparents on my fathers side lived right on Yong Kang Jie, where Din Tai Fung was founded. To this day, it is the single most famous restaurant in Taipei, the crown jewel of the pound-for-pound greatest eating island in the world. Din Tai Fung started off as an oil retailer, but business took a dive in the early eighties and they did what any Taiwanese-Chinese person does when they need to get buckets. You break out the family recipe and go hammer. Din Tai Fung was like the Genco Olive Oil of Taipei. Undefeated.
The dough is where Din Tai Fung stays the hood champ. Its just strong enough to hold the soup once the gelatin melts, but if you pick it up by the knob and look closely at the skin, its almost translucent. They create a light, airy texture for the skin that no one else has been able to duplicate. I remember going back to Din Tai Fung when I was twenty-seven and saying to myself, Theyre off! Its just not as satisfying as I remember it to be! But two hours later, walking around Taipei, all I could think about was their fucking soup dumplings. Across the street from Din Tai Fung was another restaurant that served soup dumplings and made a business of catching the spillover when people didnt want to wait an hour for a table. They were really close to the real deal. Like the first year Reebok had AI and you thought that maybe, just maybe, the Questions with the honeycomb would outsell Jordans. A false alarm.
Grandpa Huang put on for Yong Kang Jie and never cheated on the original. On the other hand, Grandpa Chiao, my mothers father, had money on his mind and really didnt have time for things like soup dumplings. He was the type of guy who would go across the street without thinking twice. He would be fully aware Din Tai Fung was better, but he was a businessman. He had things to do and never lost sight of them. Everything was calculated with my grandfather. On his desk, there was always this gold-plated abacus. Whenever something needed to be calculated, the other employees would use calculators, but Grandpa beat them to the punch every time. With his fingers on the abacus, he looked as slick as a three-card monte hustler. I loved hearing the sound: tat, tat, tat, rap, tat, tat, tat. After tapping the beads, hed always reset them all with one downward stroke, whap, and out came the answer. Hed much rather save an hour, eat some perfectly fine soup dumplings, and go on his way.
Mom had other plans. She was my grandpas youngest and loudest child. Mom claims she was his favorite, and I cant say I dont believe her. Grandpa loved her because she was entertaining and full of energy. As a kid, she took the Taiwanese national academic exam and got into all the best schools in Taipei. After she came to America as a seventeen-year-old, she managed to graduate as the salutatorian of her high school, even though she barely spoke English. On top of that, shes still the best cook in the family. My cousins love talking about things they dont know about and everyone claims their parents are the best, but even the aunts admit my mom goes hard in the paint.
That day, my uncle Joe from my dads side was with us at Yi Ping Xiao Guan. I think he actually discovered the spot, because it was in Maryland, where he lived. Earlier that day, Grandpa had asked me where I wanted to go for my sixth birthday. He figured Id say Chuck E. Cheese or McDonalds, but Momma didnt raise no fool. Chuck E. Cheese was for mouth breathers and kids with Velcro shoes. I want to go where they have the best soup dumplings!
Wheres that?
Even Uncle Joe knows! Yi Ping Xiao Guan.
I really liked Uncle Joe. He built three of the major bridges in D.C. and wore these big, thick black-rimmed glasses. I was into glasses, especially goggles, because Kareem wore them and he had the ill sky hook.
After we ate, I was kinda pissed with the shitty soup dumplings. It was my birthday! Yi Ping Xiao Guan, you cant come harder than this for the kid? Chuck E. Cheese can serve shitty food cause you get to smash moles and play Skee-Ball after lunch. But all you have are soup dumplings! How could you fuck this up? Yi Ping Xiao Guan was like Adam Morrison: your job is to slap Kobes ass when the Lakers call time out. If you cant do that, shoot yourself. As I sat there, pissed off, I saw a waiter pouring off-brand soy sauce into the Wanjashan Soy Sauce bottles. Corner cutting, bootleg, off-brand-soy-pouring Chinamen!
Mom! Mom!
Eddie, stop it, Im talking to Grandpa. Talk to Uncle Joe!
If someone was talking to Grandpa, you couldnt interrupt, but apples dont fall far from the tree. My mom was the youngest and never followed rules in the family. She enforced them on everyone else, but she never followed them herself.
MOOOMMM! Listen!
Huang Xiao Wen!
That was the signal. Black people use the government name when shit hits the fan, and my family would bust out the Chinese. It hurt my ears to hear the Chinese name. Not only did it seem louder and extra crunchy, but it usually meant you were about to get smacked the fuck up. Luckily, Uncle Joe was a nice guy who actually thought it was possible that a child might have something important to say.
Uncle Joe, I know why the soup dumplings are bad.
Really? Tell me!
Look over there: the waiter is putting the cheap soy sauce in the bottles. They must be using it in the dumplings, too.
Genius! Genius! Aya, Rei Hua, Rei Hua, zhu ge Xiao Wen tai cong ming le!
Rei Hua was my mothers Chinese name, so Uncle Joe got her attention when he used it.
Eddie figured it out. Theyre using that cheap heavy soy sauce now. Look over there, hes putting it in all the bottles!
Oh my God! Too smart, too smart, I told you, this one is so smart!
Whatever, Mom, you never listen!
Shhh, shhh, shhh, dont ruin it for yourself. You did a good thing, just eat your food now.
I think my mom is manic, but Chinese people dont believe in psychologists. We just drink more tea when things go bad. Sometimes I agree; I think were all overdiagnosed. Maybe thats just how we are, and people should leave us alone. My mom was entertaining! If you met my family, youd prescribe Xanax for all of them, but then what? Wed be boring.
At any moment, I was around my younger brother, Emery, my aunts, my uncles, my cousins, or my parents. We ate together, went shopping together, and worked together. Sometimes five of them, sometimes twelve of them; on weekends, it was anyones guess. Wed pick an aunts house and youd see a line of Cadillacs, Lincolns, and Toyotas form down the street.
Our family counted all the aunts and uncles from both sides as one team, so even if you were the oldest in your family, you might be second or third in the larger bracket. Got it? Good. So, #1 Aunt lived in Pittsburgh, where that side of the family had a furniture store. She would come down every once in a while with her kids and they were always friendly. We loved that side of the family because we saw them only three or four times a year. #2 Aunt was my mothers oldest sister and she made the best ti-pang: red cooked pork shoulder. Her husband, Gong Gong, was a really funny guy. He didnt speak English, so hed always test my Chinese, check my biceps, shoulders, triceps, and then ask to arm wrestle. Gong Gong was a funny dude, bent over all his nephews, examining them like they were entries in a dog show.
#3 Uncle was my cousin Shupeis dad. I never spoke to him cause there were always fifty or sixty people in the house when he came, since it was a big event. He lived in Pittsburgh, had four kids, and they all traveled together in packs. It was awesome when they visited. Shupei and his cousin Schubert, cool dudes who played ice hockey and poker. They were also huge, the first six-foot-three Chinamen Id ever seen. As a nine-year-old, Id tell myself I had a chance at going NBA if I grew as tall as they did. Also, Shupeis wife was white, which gave me hope that I didnt have to date someone from Chinese school.
#4 Aunt was my moms sister. She was crazy and, without any notice, she would say things like Look how fat you are! or You are really stupid, do you know that? As a kid, I stayed as far away as possible from her and her brother, Uncle Tai, because they were like Boogie Man and Bride of Boogie Man. As I got older though, #4 Aunt became a lot nicer and my brothers and I finally understood: it wasnt her. My mom was the one telling #4 Aunt about how me and my brothers were acting up. As a favor to my mom, she took on the role of enforcer. She was the first person in our family to figure out how to make cheesecake. For some reason, she had more interest in American food than the rest of us did. Ironically, she also made the best American Chinese food: fried rice.
Then came #5 Aunt, also called Aunt Beth; she was my cousin Allens mom. Then came my cousin Phils mom, who never took an American name. Next was my Uncle Tai and lastly was my mom, who everyone called Xiao A-YiLittle Aunt. Phil, Allen, and their moms were my closest family.
Aunt Beth put out a good dinner when the family got together at her house on the weekends. It was balanced. Always two vegetables depending on what was in seasonit could be Xiao You Cai or sauted kong-xin cai (Chinese watercress, literally hollow heart vegetable), which is my favorite vegetable. She liked making tomato and eggs, plus some sort of shredded pork stir-fry with either cured tofu or beans, and chicken soup. Aunt Beth was a great hostshe served a balanced meal, and let me watch sports before the older people took over the TV to sing karaoke.
I thought my cousin Allen was the coolest dude. He was three years older than me so he knew about everything just before I did. When we went to the mall, he showed me purple Girbaud jeans. He was the first to get a CD player and we always listened to Onyxs Bacdafucup together. If his mom had to pick him up from detention at school, I went to go get him, too. Sometimes hed treat me like a burden, but I looked up to him. I was learning.
My other cousin Phillip was my best friend. He was only a year older than me, but he really took on the role of older cousin. He was the kindest person in the family and smart, too. He knew something about everything, but wasnt afraid of doing dumb shit, either. Our favorite thing to do was to watch WWF together on Saturday mornings at Aunt Beths house, get hyped, and try out moves in the pool, where theyd body-slam me, causing me to immediately puke the tomato and eggs Id just eaten into the water.
We fought a lot, made fun of each other constantly, but it was a good time. It was always chaos in the living room when our whole family came over, so Allen, Phillip, and I would retreat downstairs after dinner and play Tecmo Super Bowl or Mike Tysons Punchout. Wed stay in the basement for hours and every once in a while, theyd send me up to get drinks and snacks. Id go into the dining room, which was only separated from the living room by one step. A false divider. Although everyone else had gone to the living room for karaoke, one person always remained on the dining room level: Grandma. Shed sit there in her wheelchair and make birds out of Play-Doh. Id come up to get drinks and see her alone, so Id hang out with her for a minute. All of us would keep her company at one point or another in the night.
A Q&A with Eddie Huang
You're a chef, but your restaurant doesn't show up in this book until pretty late. If you're not writing about your restaurant - the fabulous Baohaus in New York - then what are you writing about?
 Food is at the core of the book, but I examine it beyond the plate, almost as a symbol. There's only one recipe in this book and there are no measurements. I want people to understand the power that food has as a gateway drug into culture and history, but, first and foremost, my book tells a story about growing up Taiwanese-Chinese in America. It's a story about unpacking your identity, purging yourself of the things your environment has imposed upon your consciousness, and trying to set yourself free. I refused the American Experience I was sold, remixed it for myself, chopped it up, and sold it back.
One of the powerful aspects of the book is the language you use, which feels completely original. Where does your voice come from?
 Language is constantly changing and the biggest disservice you can do to yourself and your reader is to write how you think you're "supposed to" write. My parents didn't really speak English at home, so I had to develop my English voice independently and mostly through pop culture - I grew up speaking Chinese, listening to hip hop, and watching cable television. Learning to trust my own voice was probably the most important thing I ever did. When I was in college, Richard Ford visited during a speaking series and criticized Ha Jin, who had just won the National Book Award, for writing in English because it wasn't his native tongue, implying that Ha Jin should stick to Chinese. I was just a half-assed student at the time, but I stood up and argued with Ford from my seat till they made me sit down. My mother speaks broken English but even with her comic disregard for subject-verb agreement, she throws mad knowledge darts. You should never worry about what others think about the language you use, as long as it's truly your own.
What do you want readers to take away from Fresh Off the Boat?
 The simple surface reading of this book is to be yourself by any means possible. That's the basic theme, but I want people to see how implementing a simple concept like that takes a struggle between you and your country, you and your city, you and your reference group, you and your family, you and your race, you and the sub cultures you subscribe to, and on and on. It's about the constant battle between that little voice inside you and the people you love, the legacy you carry, the cultures that make you curious, the country that tells you who you're supposed to be. It's about the complexity of being an individual - about finding love in family, in friends, in food, in music and culture, and a million other surprising places, and figuring out how to bring all that together inside of you. It's about learning to be fearless, but it's also about the cost of those lessons and the literal and psychic violence you encounter when you try to break free.
 There are tons of books about the struggle to be an individual, but with each one we reach more and more people who were never spoken to. I was always a weirdo growing up, but I believed that there were weirdos like me, and my writing this book is like Professor X putting on cerebro to find the other mutants.
As a first gen American from an Asian (Filipino) family, I can relate to some of the things Mr. Huang wrote about. Granted this book is written in his words, including slang and profanities, it is more acceptable with the younger audience. That aside, you really get a look into his story and where he feels he is in todays American Society. I cannot help but empathize. 
ENTERTAINING FAST READ. HAD ME LAUGHING, HUNGRY, AND PROUD TO BE ASIAN
This book looks at a lot of the darker things in life in a light hearted manor.  I liked it, but it was written so much in slang and obscure references much of it was hard for me to follow.  It was a refreshing approach for biography.
Dog.  Wish I had the opportunities you had and Im so not Asian.  Spoiled ingrate.  Love your moms and pops
Not sure about the positive reviews.  Horrible story.  Just the same thing over and over.  Not the least bit funny, unless you find constant street fighting funny.  Didn't even bother to finish.
I thought he brought something genuine from Taiwan and shared it with Tiger Style and some duck sauce.
Wolfstar
a great read, entertaining and refreshing - hope to one day visit baohaus.
Great book. Had me laughing until I was crying as I relate to some of the stories. Thank you, Eddie.
I purchased this book because of an interview with Eddie Huang about his book over the radio and his story inspired me.  However, I was a bit disappointed with the story content.  The narrator from the audio book was in fact Eddie Huang.  Throughout the book, the "f" word and many other concatenations were used that I could have done without. Although that is Eddie Huang, what you see is what you get, and is not going to sugar coat his life, his culture, believes and most of all his voice.  Eddie has made a name for himself through hard work and family values learned through his parents and culture.  Overall, I enjoyed the audio book and would rate it as a 7 out of 10 for bad language and tasteless ethics in some parts of his story. 
Gharrison 
Houston, Texas
Hilarious! I can totally understand where Eddie is coming from. Gotta try Baohaus someday.
