   This biographical article relies too much on references to primary sources. Please improve this article by adding secondary or tertiary sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (July 2009)  
   This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (July 2009)  
   This biographical article needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful. (July 2009)  
James Prince (also referred to as J. Prince) is the CEO of Houston-based Rap-a-Lot Records, and boxing manager to the sport's top talents, such as Andre Ward and previously Floyd Mayweather Jr.
Prince, who for 20 years has worked to promote Houston's rap scene and rap artists, is now working to promote underprivileged neighborhoods and communities. He recently broke ground on a community center he is building in his old 5th Ward neighborhood that will help young children, teens and adults to excel more in their lives.
On Jan. 30, 2007, Houston Mayor Bill White and the City Council honored Prince for over 20 years of commitment and dedication to the city.[1] The result of the proclamation named an official James Prince Day in Houston. The recognition came on the heels of the groundbreaking for a new recreation center Prince built in Houstons 5th Ward. "The new facility is located across from the Prince Boxing Complex in the 3000 block of Jensen. The multi-million dollar recreation center will serve as a hub for the communitys childrenproviding various services from computer courses to athletics." One week later, he led the charge on educating youth about HIV/AIDS prevention and testing with the launching of Strapped, in coordination with a string of initiatives and events set up to address the issue of AIDS in the black community. "Talking about something is one thing, but having something to offer is another," J. Prince said. "We promote abstinence first for those that are strong enough not to have sex. I wasn't one of those. And we can't realistically just tell them not to have sex, so we are telling them to 'strap up.'" James Prince is known to be affiliated with Darren Millard of Rogers Sportsnet Hockey Central at Noon.[citation needed]
In June 7, 2010, J Prince was honored alongside fellow legends Master P, Jermaine Dupri, Timbaland, and Slick Rick at the VH1 7th annual Hip Hop Honors Awards for both his creative contributions and his philanthropic ventures.
On February 13, 2015, J released the diss track "Courtesy Call" in response to recent drama involving Young Money artist Drake.[2] On the track he disses Diddy, Birdman, Slim, Suge Knight, Lil Wayne, Cortez Bryant, and attorney Ron Sweeney.
 This page was last modified on 27 February 2015, at 07:04.
