Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Home & Museum is self-supporting and not-for-profit and relies entirely on admissions, membership contributions and sales from the Rocky Ridge Bookstore. Non-members can also do their part to help preserve and restore Lauras Rocky Ridge Farm by making a donation of their choice through our on-line store. Learn more.
Welcome to the official Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Home & Museum website. We hope the history and heritage found here will inspire you to begin making plans to visit this once-in-a-lifetime experience. Each year, more than 30,000 fans from all 50 U.S. states and about 20 countries make their own pilgrimage to visit the famous Rocky Ridge Farm historic homes and museum in Mansfield, Missouri. Here youll find the most comprehensive collection of Ingalls/Wilder memorabilia in the world. Start planning your special visit to Rocky Ridge Farm.Plan Your Trip Today!
Created by Ozark Public Television and narrated by award-winning actress Tess Harper. This video is a must-have for fans of all ages. Buy this Video!
Host Jim Baker with guests Jean Coday and Daniel Hancock explore Laura Ingalls Wilders remarkable life, and the future of the Mansfield homestead and museum. Watch this video.
Join us this September 20thfor our annual celebration commemorating Laura Ingalls Wilder, Americas favorite pioneer girl, and her cherished Little House books. This year we will have the honor of Lucy Lee Flippin, Eliza Jane from TVs Little House on the Prairie, joining us for our celebration. Lucy Lee will be speaking & autographing. 2014 is120 years the Wilders arrived in Mansfield, MO as well as 40 years for the televisionshow Little House on the PrairieGo to Calendar of Events for details.
Wilder Days is an annual event that is held by the community of Mansfield, Missouri to remember and recognize one of their favorite and very famous residents,the late Laura Ingalls Wilder. You can learn more about why we take time to acknowledge and appreciate Laura at Lauras Story Laura enjoyed living and working on their farm in the Mansfield community and spent many hours writing her childhood experiences of pioneer life in this country which became the favorite Little House books that children love today in many countries besides our own.
Venders and volunteers from the community gather to show midwestern hospitality to visitors during the celebrationhospitality thatis commonhere all through the year.
