Sort and filter by location, price, ratings and amenities to find the perfect Myrtle Beach hotel for you!
Sea Watch offers tremendous amenities, like an oceanfront restaurant, indoor and outdoor pools, and a lazy river! 
Don't plan your trip without finding all the best things to do! Read more than 500 articles from local experts on the top restaurants, attractions, nightlife, shows & more!
Looking for things to do on your vacation? Check out our complete list of Myrtle Beach events! Find the area's best festivals, concerts, entertainment and much more!
With more than 200 restaurants, you're sure to find something good on your next vacation  from seafood and steaks to barbecue and breakfast we've got a little bit of everything!
Get advice on all the area's top eateries as our food experts share their favorite spots for everything from the best steak and seafood to burgers, pizza & more!
 	Conveniently located in the heart of town, Broadway at the Beach is one of the best and most well-known attractions in Myrtle Beach  the
Choose from more than 80 courses to find the perfect links for your next round of golf in Myrtle Beach.
From area info, cost of living and real estate to transportation, education and recreation  everything you need to know about living here! 
Check out the Relocation Guide 
 	Serving the North Myrtle Beach community and visitors since 1959, Elliott Beach Rentals knows a thing or two about customer service. Offering hundreds of great oceanfront condominiums and
With a brand new airport terminal and non-stop flights from more than 25 destinations, there's more reason than ever to fly to Myrtle Beach! Find out more about Myrtle Beach International Airport and all it has to offer in our airport guide.
Check it out 
Whether passing through or settling in for a week stay, Sixt has the answer for all your transportation needs. And special for MyrtleBeach.com visitors, save 10% off when you book with us!
 Here's a look a few of today's hottest deals! To see all the best room rates and offers, click below:
Check out our brand-new coupons page with plenty great discounts and deals on everything from attractions and amusements to restaurants and shopping! 
 	Myrtle Beach, South Carolina is nestled along the beautiful coast on the Atlantic Ocean and is packed with family attractions, exciting theater shows and endless restaurants serving up almost anything you can imagine. Its no wonder we get over 14 million visitors annually! Read more
Towers at North Myrtle Beach offers a luxurious escape in your choice of affordable one, two and three-bedroom condominiums. 
Whether you are interested in golf or entertainment, Beach Cove definitely has a special promotion that will meet your vacation needs!
The Windsurfer Hotel, located on the Myrtle Beach Boardwalk, offers private balcony views and a variety of room types.  
Ocean Dunes guests enjoy many perks of the Sands Resorts properties, including waterpark and amusement park passes, free golf and more. 
Enjoy the nostalgia of a motor lodge at the Jamaican Inn Oceanfront, part of the Caribbean Resort in Myrtle Beach. 
The family-owned Cabana Shores Hotel is one of the oceanfront hotels in the quiet north-end cabana section of Myrtle Beach. 
 	For years weve been thinking that Myrtle Beach is one of the best vacation destinations in the country, and our 14 million tourists each year seem to agree. But its always nice when
Read more 
 	Over the past two years, the regulations regarding what types of beach tents, umbrellas and canopies are allowed on Grand Strand beaches have become hot-button topic for Myrtle Beach
Read more 
 	In the famous words country music legend Alan Jackson "Everybody's gone country," in Myrtle Beach lately. With excitement about the upcoming Carolina Country Music Festival reaching a fever
Read more 
When the day is done or an occasional shower chases you inside, these hotels delight with their indoor water features. From waterparks to kiddie pools, you'll be happy to spend time indoors at these great spots!
Read more 
If you're looking to be in the center of the action right in the heart of Myrtle Beach, check out these hotels located on or near the Boardwalk. Get a great view of the ocean and the Skywheel's light show from your balcony.
Read more 
Myrtle Beach is a kid-friendly city with tons of things for kids to do and explore. Most Myrtle Beach hotels are family friendly. Here are some of our favorite kid-friendly hotels.
Read more 
 	Collectively known as the Grand Strand, the Myrtle Beach area stretches 60 miles along the North Carolina and South Carolina coast, running from just over the state line in Calabash, N.C., all the way down to historic Georgetown, S.C.
 	Here's a look at some of the most popular areas for visitors to stay:
 	Myrtle Beach is the heart of the Grand Strand, including iconic areas like Ocean Boulevard and the Myrtle Beach Boardwalk downtown.
 	It includes many of the areas favorite things to do, including Broadway at the Beach, the Family Kingdom Amusement Park, Myrtle Waves water park, The Carolina Opry and The Market Common.
 	Dozens of the area's best hotels, resorts and vacation rentals call Myrtle Beach home.
 	North Myrtle Beach is located just up Highway 17 from Myrtle Beach proper and includes areas such as Atlantic Beach, Crescent Beach and Cherry Grove.
 	You'll find a myriad of oceanfront hotels and condos along Ocean Boulevard and on Main Street North Myrtle Beach plenty of shops, restaurants and iconic beach clubs like Duck's and Fat Harold's.
 	Some of the most notable attractions in North Myrtle Beach include Barefoot Landing  featuring the Alabama Theatre and the House of Blues  Alligator Adventure, the historic O.D. Pavilion Amusement Park and much more.
 	Just beyond North Myrtle Beach and heading north, you'll find Little River, a town that's home of the annual Blue Crab Festival and several eateries and attractions along the Little River Waterfront.
 	Beyond that, you'll cross the state line into North Carolina where the famously fried Calabash-style seafood awaits in Calabash, N.C., a small town which gives way to other, more laid-back N.C. beaches including Ocean Isle Beach, Holden Beach and Sunset Beach.
 	Just to the south of Myrtle Beach in the area known as "the south strand" are several laid-back beach communities, notable for their family-friendly attractions such as Wild Water and Wheels and attractive beach houses.
 	Here in the Surfside Beach and Garden City Beach areas, vacation homes and rentals feature prominently along with a few smaller hotels.
 	A bit further south you'll find Murrells Inlet, known as the  "seafood capital of South Carolina"  where you can check out the Murrells Inlet Marshwalk for fresh seafood and live entertainment year-round.
 	Venture further south beyond Murrells Inlet and you'll find the upscale Litchfield Beach and Pawleys Island area, a pair of shabby chic communities that offer a much different experience than the bustling beaches to the north.
 	Here you'll find a slower pace of life  perfect for a relaxing vacation  and plenty of vacation rentals and beach houses. Popular things to do include shopping at the Hammock Shops Village, dining at exquisite restaurants like Frank's Outback and playing several top-notch golf courses.
 	A stay on the Grand Strand's southernmost edge also means easy access to downtown Georgetown, S.C., a historic seaport with lots of interesting activities and restaurants to check out.
Save BIG this Easter Weekend! Enjoy amazing amenities including indoor and outdoor pools, lazy river and more!
Come visit the Breakers this Spring and enjoy savings as much as 30% Off!
Arrive any day Sunday - Wednesday and Save up to 30% off this Spring. 
Enjoy this fantastic location near North Myrtle Beach & all the amenities Sea Watch Resort has to offer including 6 oceanfront pools & 2 lazy rivers!
Save BIG this Easter season! Enjoy amenities such as the large outdoor poolscape, indoor lazy river, easy beach access, lobby bar and so much more!
Compare hotels in Myrtle Beach, book direct, and save by beginning your search below:
Get great deals and information on Myrtle Beach, South Carolina:
 Check out our latest footage from Myrtle Beach hotels and places around town:
                     We may have some colder weather headed our way for the weekend but the sun is shining and that's all we care about for now! (It is February                     
                     Today's Wave Wednesday was filmed from a balcony on the 22nd floor at the Palace Resort in Myrtle Beach. Our friends at                     
                     Today's Wave Wednesday is brought to you by the COLD weather! We shouldn't complain, especially since this is what we get to look at every                     
                     Today was a picture perfect day for a Wave Wednesday video! The winds were calm and the sun was out in full force. Plenty of folks were                     
                     Today we bring you the first Wave Wednesday of 2015! It's a chilly day but nothing like what we'll see later on and tomorrow. It's easy to                     
 Check out the latest photos from Myrtle Beach attractions and events around town:
                      	Unseasonably warm temperatures in the mid-80s brought out many visitors on a lovely Tuesday afternoon in downtown Myrtle Beach on March 17,                     
                      	Runners rocked the MyrtleBeach.com Myrtle Beach Marathon, which included a half marathon and relay race in addition to the full marathon.                     
                      	Runners strut their stuff in the 18th annual MyrtleBeach.com Myrtle Beach Marathon on Valentine's Day 2015.                     
                      	Participants in the MyrtleBeach.com Myrtle Beach Marathon stopped by our photo booth at the Runners Expo for some fun on Friday! For more                     
                      	Participants in the MyrtleBeach.com Myrtle Beach Marathon stopped by our photo booth at the Runners Expo for some fun on Thursday night!                     
