    							Easter Egg Plunge...   				Hey, kids! Registration is underway for the Easter Egg   				Plunge at Canal Street Recreation Center, 4:00 p.m., Thursday,  				April   				2. This is a great family event for children, ages five   				to 12. Activities include diving for eggs in the   				pool, along with candy and prizes. Admission is free.   				Advance registration is required by March 30. Call Ryan   				Caputo at 918-1476 to sign up for the Easter Egg Plunge!   				
  							  							    							Bikefest traffic and safety improvements...    							Myrtle Beach is   							  							implementing new safety and traffic management plans   							for the Atlantic Beach Memorial Day Bikefest,   							including a traffic loop,   							from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m., to keep   							vehicles   							flowing. Details and a   							map of the loop are available,along with   							the  							Police Dept.'s Memorial Day Weekend plan as of   							March.
  							  							    							J. R. Martinez is Grand Marshal...    				  				  							Myrtle Beach  							celebrates   				  							Military Appreciation Days     				during the month of May with a full schedule of    				events.     							Army veteran   				  				J. R. Martinez    				  				   				is Grand Marshal    				for our    							parade on Saturday,    							May 16,   				which also is Armed Forces Day.    							Martinez was severely wounded during a tour of duty in Iraq in   				2003. His recovery took 34 months, but today    							he is a   				successful    							actor, author, motivational speaker and winner of   				Dancing with the Stars. You'll have a chance to meet J. R.   				Martinez at the   				  				Family Picnic .    							For more information about activities in May, visit   							  							www.militaryappreciationdays.com.  							
  							  							 Hazard and disaster survey...   							Myrtle Beach is updating its five-year Floodplain   							Management and Hazard Mitigation Plan. As part   							of the process, the public is invited to take a  							  							short survey about hazards and disasters. We   							want to hear from you!
  							  							   							Parking meters in effect...  							Parking   							meters and pay stations   							are in place from March 1 through October 30 in   							the commercial areas east of Kings   							  							 Highway. See our  							Parking Meter page for   							more information. If you have a valid handicapped hang tag or license   							plate, or a Purple Heart or Disabled American   							Veterans (DAV) license plate, you may park free at    							any public meter in South Carolina.   							(This exemption does not apply to private meters or pay stations.) 
  							  							   							  							Fourth Avenue   							North Deepwater Ocean Outfall... Work   							is underway on a new   							deepwater ocean outfall at Fourth Avenue North.  							Completion is   							scheduled for November 2015 on this $10.4 million   							project that will carry rainwater more than 1,000   							feet off shore. A  							  							print-on-demand brochure with details about the   							project and timeline is available.
  							  							   							Seasonal hours...  							Dogs and bicycles are allowed on the beach   							before 10:00 a.m. and after 5:00 p.m. from May 1   							through Labor Day. Dogs and bicycles are allowed   							on the boardwalk only between 5:00 a.m. to 10:00   							a.m. from May 1 through Labor Day. At all times,   							dogs must be on a leash and you must pick up and   							properly dispose of droppings.
  							  							  							    							Police records and   							statistics...  							  							  							The Police Department's  							  							Police-to-Citizen (P2C) site provides incident reports, arrest records,    							accident   							reports, crime  							statistics and more. Visit the   							site to learn more about Myrtle Beach police and local law   							enforcement results.
  				  				  							    							More city news...   							Visit the   			 Friday   							Fax    							for this week's news, agendas and more. Or,   							add your name to our list by sending us your   				e-mail address .   						  						Check out the   			 Photos of the   							Week    							for snapshots of city activities. You'll also   				find information about flood protection   				and hurricane preparations. 
