  			A number of events are taking place at the Myrtle Beach area's two state parks to coincide with the arrival of spring.more  		
  							Enjoy 10 percent off when you stay four nights or more! This offer is valid Feb. 10 t...more  						
  							Its hammock season in Pawleys Island at The Oceanfront Litchfield Inn! ...more  						
  							Stay in a two bedroom condo starting at $109 per night. Enjoy indoor and outdoor pool...more  						
  							Unpredictable spring weather wont affect your vacation at Island Vista! ...more  						
  							Warm up with us! Book your stay and receive 10 percent off our already low winter rat...more  						
  							Spring is here at Surfside Beach Resort- and so are our amazing spring deals! Visit o...more  						
  							Save up to 30% off your spring vacation! Accommodations include one and three bedroom...more  						
  							For a limited time, arrive between Jan. 1 and March 31, 2015, stay four or more night...more  						
  							    $39 per night Feb. 26 - March 27      $69 per night March 28 - May 22      $99 pe...more  						
  							Arrive Sunday or Monday and receive 20 percent off your entire stay. This offer is va...more  						
Welcome to Myrtle Beach, SC and the area's official online vacation guide which offers everything you need to plan a perfect vacation to the Myrtle Beach Area. Plan your stay online and choose from a wide assortment of accommodation options including Myrtle Beach hotels, resorts, motels, condos, beach homes and additional types of vacation rentals. From oceanfront resorts along the entire Grand Strand, to cozy beach home and vacation rentals in North and South Myrtle Beach, including Surfside Beach and Garden City, find the amenities and location perfect for you. Once you have decided on your place to call home, create unforgettable memories in this South Coast paradise, which offers:
Plan your ultimate Myrtle Beach vacation today. Find hotels, resorts and vacation rentals that offer the amenities you desire utilizing our custom online Accommodations Search tool. Before you arrive, explore entertainment and attractions and experience Myrtle Beach in ourAll New Photo Gallery.
With unlimited options for fun, you'll find most Myrtle Beach hotels and resorts offer inclusive vacation packages in multiple themes including golf vacations, cuisine, attractions, theater and live entertainment, wedding packages and more.
Sixty miles of soft sandy beach, entertainment and attractions for everyone, endless shopping, exquisite dining, thrilling water sports and so much more -- Myrtle Beach is the place where you belong.
