Lady Gaga gets a smooch from her fiance Taylor Kinney while attending Operation Smiles 2015 Annual Celebrity Ski & Smile Challenge on Saturday (March 14) in Park City, UT.
The engaged couple was joined by Taylors Vampire Diaries pals Michael Trevino and Claire Holt, as well as Scott Wolf and About a Boys David Walton.
Teams of six racers consisting of a celebrity skier, one Olympic skier, and four amateur skiers/Operation Smile donors competed in a friendly dual slalom race to raise funds for the organization. Zachary Levi and The Nerd Machine team up to host the event every year.
FYI: Gaga is wearing House of Lavande Vintage earrings. Taylor is wearing a Levis shirt. On the slopes, Taylor and Gaga are both wearing Volcom snow gear and Arnette goggles.
20+ pictures inside of Lady Gaga, Taylor Kinney, and more participating in the charity event More Here! 
It looks like Lady Gaga has already tapped her good friend and frequent music collaborator Tony Bennett to sing at her upcoming wedding to Taylor Kinney!
According to the New York Post, the 88-year-old singer confirmed he will be taking part in the festivities.
I love it, Tony said of their engagement, adding, They invited me to do it and, of course, I will.
Tony didnt divulge any details about the nuptials themselves, but said, All I know is, knowing Lady Gaga, it will be fabulous.
Taylor Kinney goes shirtless while carrying fiancee Lady Gaga on his back during the 2015 Chicago Polar Plunge held at North Avenue Beach on Sunday morning (March 1) in Chicago, Ill.
The engaged couple, who was joined by Vince Vaughn, went for a quick dip in the freezing water together in Lake Michigan.
PHOTOS: Check out the latest pics of Lady Gaga
Every year, thousands of people across the country take the icy plunge to raise money and awareness for Special Olympics. Taylor shoots his show Chicago Fire in the area.
15+ pictures inside of Lady Gaga and Taylor Kinney participating in the Polar Bear Plunge More Here! 
Lady Gaga shows off her engagement ring in a cute photo with Sophia Bush while hanging out on the set of her fiance Taylor Kinneys show Chicago Fire on Wednesday (February 25).
#wcw @LadyGaga, naturally. She SLAYED the #Oscars and now shes snuggled up with the #ChicagoFam celebrating love, Sophia captioned the photo. Oh #TaylorKinney youre a lucky man!! #love #congrats .
Sophia, who stars on the spinoff Chicago P.D., also added that Gaga said, The Oscars were amazing, but this!? This is everything.
Make sure to watch Gagas full Sound of Music tribute performance if you missed it!
Bigger pic inside  More Here! 
Lady Gaga is dishing details on her fiance Taylor Kinneys proposal to her earlier this month!
The 28-year-old singer, who just gave one of the best performances of her career at the Oscars last night, says she initially got a candy ring from her man.
First he gave me a Ring Pop. That was kind of amazing and I was crying, I was so excited, Gaga told Access Hollywood. I said, Yes! right away and then he pulled out the heart-shape diamond. First it was candy. I was happy with the candy.
From the moment I met him, my heart was with him, she added.
Click through the gallery below for photos of Gaga and Taylor over the years  More Here! 
Lady Gaga just shared a close up shot of her engagement ring given to her by Taylor Kinney and it has a special message on the band!
My favorite part of my engagement ring, Taylor and Lorraine designed TF497S in white diamonds on the band. He always called me by my birth name. Since our very first date. Im such a happy bride-to-be! I cant stop smiling!! the 28-year-old entertainer shared on her Instagram.
So cute!! Taylor and Gaga got engaged on Valentines Day.
Bigger photo of the ring inside More Here! 
Lady Gaga and Taylor Kinney announced their engagement yesterday and we couldnt be happier for them!
To celebrate, weve put together some of the hottest photos of the 33-year-old Chicago Fire actor!
Heres some fun facts about Taylor and Lady Gaga:
- Taylor and Gaga reportedly started dating back in 2011 after meeting on the set of the You & I music video. 
- Lady Gaga wants a big family! I want to have tons of kids, she told the Times of UK last year. I really want to have a family and I really want to nurture my children.
- Gaga went on The Ellen DeGeneres Show and said that Taylor is a hidden weirdo. He is extremely strange, actually, and we complement each others weirdness. Thats actually one of the first things he ever said to me. Its a Dr. Seuss quote, that you find in someone else a compatible weirdness. And it was one of the first things he said to me. 
Check out lots of photos of Taylor Kinney inside More Here! 
