The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life | novel by Thurman | Encyclopedia Britannica
                                             	                                          
             Help
         School & Library Products
                          SHOP             
         
                                      JOIN LOGIN                         Activate Your Free Trial!                     
                 
          
     
                            Popular Topics
             quizzes
             galleries
             lists
             projects
             
                                
  
      
      
                                      The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life
         
Novel by Thurman Contribute your ideas for this topic
                 

                
                                                Thank you for helping us expand this topic!
                 Simply begin typing or use the editing tools above to add to this article.
                 Once you are finished and click submit, your modifications will be sent to our editors for review.             
             
          Ads by Google
 		                 	 	 	    
 	                    This topic is discussed in the following articles:             
                         African American literature
             African American literature: Novelists      
             ...colour prejudice among black New Yorkers. In 1932 Fisher brought out        The Conjure Man Dies, often referred to as the first African American detective novel. Thurmans        The Blacker the Berry (1929) exposes colour prejudice among African Americans and is among the first African American novels to broach the topic of homosexuality. The struggles and...      

    

   
                  	                                       
     
      
              
     
 
         	 	 	    
 	   

            
        
                              	 	 	    
 	   
              About Us
             About Our Ads
             Contact Us
             Privacy Policy
             Terms of Use
         
         2015 Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc.     
       Please select the sections you want to printSelect All

              Table of contents     
     Cancel          MLA style:
          "The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life".Encyclopdia Britannica. Encyclopdia Britannica Online.
Encyclopdia Britannica Inc., 2015. Web. 23 Mar. 2015
<http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/671765/The-Blacker-the-Berry-A-Novel-of-Negro-Life>.
          APA style:
          The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life.(2015). In Encyclopdia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/671765/The-Blacker-the-Berry-A-Novel-of-Negro-Life
          Harvard style:
          The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life.2015. Encyclopdia Britannica Online. Retrieved 23 March, 2015, from http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/671765/The-Blacker-the-Berry-A-Novel-of-Negro-Life
          Chicago Manual of Style:
          Encyclopdia Britannica Online, s. v. "The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life", accessed March 23, 2015, http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/671765/The-Blacker-the-Berry-A-Novel-of-Negro-Life.
                While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies.
          Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.      
    
          Update 
         Link 
     
                        Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters.
             You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content:                               
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                 

          
                        Add links to related Britannica articles!
                                  You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box.
                     Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results.                                                     
                       Note: we do not allow links to external resources in editor.
                     Please click the Web sites link for this article to add citations for
                     external Web sites.                 
            
          
     
              Editing Tools:        Tips for Editing
        

  
                             Leave Edit Mode             Submit         
     
 
       We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles.
     You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind:
Encyclopaedia Britannica articles are written in a neutral, objective tone for a general audience.
         You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered.
         Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources.
         At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.)
     
     Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions. 
  
  
                                           MEDIA FOR:
         The Blacker the Berry: A Novel of Negro Life
     
        		
                                                                                                                                                    
  		 		     			    
 			    Citation                 MLA
                     APA
                     Harvard
                     Chicago
                 

 			
 		
  		 			Email 			
 			 				To: 				From: 				Comment: 				 		
  		 			You have successfully emailed this.
 			Error when sending the email. Try again later.
 			
  	
  	
  	 	         	    
 	
      ToFromSubjectComments(Please limit to 900 characters)
      Cancel        
                Or click Continue to submit anonymously:
          Continue
      
  
      

