Warren Sapp admitted to authorities that he paid $600 for oral sex, according to a police report released on Wednesday. The Hall of Fame defensive lineman was arrested in Phoenix on Feb. 2 and charged with soliciting a prostitute and two counts of assault. 
According to the police report, which was obtained by the Arizona Republic, things started to go sour between Sapp and two alleged female victims when one of the women wanted Sapp to pay her more money for sexual intercourse.
Sapp admitted to police that he had paid each woman $300 for oral sex. 
The 42-year-old Sapp met the the two women in the bar at the Renaissance Hotel where he was staying in downtown Phoenix. The two women, ages 23 and 34, told Sapp that they were dancers at a strip club in Las Vegas and Sapp decided to invite them up to his room. 
When the trio arrived to Sapp's room, the two women took off their clothes and danced while Sapp threw $100 bills at them, according to the police report. Sapp then decided to pay $300 to each woman for oral sex. While he was with the 23-year-old, Sapp filmed the sex act with his cell phone camera, a video that he later showed to police. 
At some point, the 23-year-old asked Sapp to give her more money if he wanted to have intercourse, Sapp declined and that's when thing's allegedly got ugly. 
"[Sapp] told her several times that she needed to leave but she was irate," the police report said. "At one point, she used Warren's phone to call security to his room."
According to the police report, Sapp then threw the woman in the hallway to get her out of his room. 
If Sapp is convicted of soliciting a prostitute, he'll face up to six months in jail and three years probation, according to the Associated Press. Sapp, who was fired from his job with the NFL Network the day after the arrest, is due back in court on Feb. 23.  
As for the women, the 23-year old is facing a prostitution charge, while the 34-year-old was cited for failure to register with the state as an escort.
