Spring is a great season for outdoor fun and Shreveport-Bossier has plenty to offer, from cultural celebrations to annual events. Weve included a few of our top picks here, but for a complete listing of the many festivals and events happening in the area this spring, please visit www.SBFunGuide.com.
Enjoy great blues acts at the 9th Annual Shreveport Blues Festival at Bossier City's CenturyLink Center on Saturday, Feb. 28.
Get your green on and celebrate St. Patrick's Day at Patty in the Plaza. The fun happens on Saturday, March 14 in Shreveport's Festival Plaza. Enjoy great music, green beer, food vendors, craft vendors, and more.
The Louisiana Redbud Festival, a Southeast Tourism Society Top 20 event, bursts into bloom on Saturday, March 21.
Gumbo Gladiators from near and far will compete for the title of Ultimate Gumbo Gladiator at Battle of the Gumbo Gladiators on Saturday, March 21.
Doc Love and Jerry Monza, two of the top five drivers in the popular The Street Outlaws show on Discovery Channel, compete for bragging rights at the Street Outlaws Race on the Thunder Roads dragstrip on Saturday, March 21.
Enjoy authentic Asian cuisine and learn about Cambodian culture at the 8th Annual ASEANA Spring Festival celebration of the Soursdey Mut Cambodian Festival on Saturday, March 28.
Celebrate Spring and the Louisiana Purchase at the 10-day Holiday in Dixie Festival, April 10-19.
Thrill to the aerial acrobatic show by the U.S. Navy Blue Angels at the 2015 Barksdale Air Force Base Airshow, Saturday and Sunday, May 2-3.
Feast on everyone's favorite Cajun crustacean at the Mudbug Madness Festival and enjoy great music, contests and fun in downtown Shreveport, Thursday-Sunday, May 21-24.
Music lovers can choose from a plethora of musical blockbusters like:
- Grammy winner Lalah Hathaway on Thursday, February 26
 - Phenomenal line-up of top Christian artists including Skillet, Jeremy Camp, Francesca Battistelli, Building 429 and more at Winter Jam 2015 on Friday, February 27. 
 - Grammy-nominated R&B singer Charlie Wilson, with special guests kem and Joe on Thursday, March 19
 - Top country star Miranda Lambert's Certified Platinum Tour on Friday, March 20
 - Radio Contraband Rock Radio Award winners Five Finger Death Punch on Thursday, April 30
 - Grammy-winning rock favorites, Huey Lewis and the News on Friday, May 1
 - Grammy-winning pop superstar Taylor Swift on Wednesday, May 20 
Wow! All that entertainment can really work up a hunger. So be sure to check out our guide to local dining.
Our legacy . . . East Texas Cowboy, with a Cajun Twist; Shreveport-Bossier: Louisianas Other Side
 Its that unique combination of two great American heritages that sets Shreveport-Bossier apart. Its a little Texas, a little Cajun. Youll find the combination reflected in our mouth-watering dining, where flavorful Texas steak may be combined with spicy crawfish. Or you might find it in our music, with nightclubs and concerts for jazz, country, bluegrass, folk, zydeco, and everything in between. Theres no place like it in America, a world of color and sound, taste and entertainment, elegant Southern charm and a relaxed attitude that suggest you kick off your boots and stay a while.
Six Riverboat Casinos 
  Our six riverboat casinos are floating palaces, tributes to the frontier tradition of 24-hour fun and excitement. Along with traditional gaming, our casinos host fabulous entertainment and an assortment of restaurants and buffets. And dont be surprised to find a famous star or two at your gaming table or favorite club. For horse-racing fans, Harrah's Louisiana Downs offers thoroughbred racing  May through September, Quarter Horse racing January through March, and year-round simulcast.
Find out what so many people already know . . . Shreveport-Bossier: Louisianas Other Side is a great place to be. Whether you visit for a day or stay for a lifetime, you can't help but have a good time in Shreveport-Bossier!
Join us on Facebook to get daily updates on area festivals and attractions, and be the first to know when we start a new sweepstakes.
