TAMPA, Fla. -- Gary Denbo doesn't need credit for helping mold one of the greatest Yankees ever. Derek Jeter would have been Derek Jeter without him, Denbo understands that. But it was the level of trust that Denbo built over a nearly 20-year relationship with Jeter that allowed him to help one of sports' most reticent superstars when he was struggling near the end of his career.
In early 2011, Jeter was injured and a little lost. There was speculation the then-37-year-old shortstop was finished as an everyday player when a strained calf put him on the disabled list and sent him to the team's training complex here to recover and get back on track.
But then Jeter turned to Denbo, his first professional manager in 1993, and things turned around. Mark Newman, then the Yankees' senior vice president of baseball operation, watched it happen. "I know they contracted his swing," Newman said in a phone interview. "There were some adjustments to his pre-swing movement. His leg kick was reduced some."
It worked wonders. Jeter went on a tear when he returned, finished the year with a near-.300 batting average and followed that season with one more All-Star campaign before an injury-plagued 2013 and his grand 2014 retirement tour.
What does Denbo think of the time he's spent with Jeter? "I was just fortunate to be around him," he said.
In interviews with New Jersey Advance Media over the last week, people inside and outside the Yankees' organization said many of its young players will feel the same way about Denbo soon.
Denbo, 54, has the biggest task of his life ahead of him. After Newman retired in the offseason, Denbo, who's been in the organization for most of his post-playing career, was tabbed to take over as the club's vice president of player development.
It will be one of the most scrutinized jobs in Major League Baseball. It will require early mornings and long nights. It will require the patience and baseball smarts for which Denbo's well known respected, sure, but it will also take a thick skin.
After all, the Yankees are the game's winningest team, and missing the playoffs for two straight seasons while spending hundreds of million dollars on free agents has left many wondering why its farm system hasn't produced top-end talent in years.
Denbo was hired to change that. It will be tough, but, general manager Brian Cashman said, Denbo turned out well qualified for the job despite an exhaustive hiring process
"His experience in the game is very well-rounded," Cashman said. "From a player, to a manager, to a hitting coach, to a hitting coordinator, to a major league hitting coordinator, to going overseas to Japan and then doing pro scouting, he's worked with me in all facets. He was a very strong candidate going in and, I felt, the best candidate for it."
Denbo said his goal is simple.
"It's to have the best player development system in all of professional baseball," he said. "What I hope to do is put together the best coaching staff that's available and put those groups together and develop championship-caliber players. That's the mission."
John Gibbons worked with Denbo for a short time, but was quickly impressed. Denbo was hired to be Gibbons' hitting coach in Toronto in 2008, but with the Blue Jays in last place in late July of that year, the pair were canned, along with two other coaches.
"It's unfortunate that he got (fired) because he's a great baseball guy," Gibbons said. "He just got caught up in the purge.
"He's definitely a thinker. He's got some great ideas. And he's not afraid to voice those ideas. You need that in baseball. It's too easy to ride the fence. But where everyone goes one way, he's a guy who will throw something out there in a different direction. For them to give him the job that they gave him, it speaks volumes about what kind of baseball mind he is."
Yankees bench coach Rob Thomson has known Denbo for about two decades and has held various player development positions with the Yankees over the years. If anybody has an idea of what it will take for Denbo to succeed in his role, it's Thomson. And he believes Denbo has what it takes.
"It's a bear of a job," Thompson said. "You have to have a lot of energy and a lot of pension. You have to spend a lot of hours at it. Gary's that type of guy."
Denbo's already shown he's not shy when it comes to making decisions.
Rather than simply letting the youngsters show up for their first spring training under his eye, he developed a six-week program for 15 of the Yankees' most promising players, including top prospects Aaron Judge, Greg Bird and Luis Severino. Called "Captain's Camp," it featured appearances from Jeter and other ex-major leaguers Tino Martinez and Scott Rolen. And it taught players about more than baseball, Cashman said. They learned about nutrition and exercise and sacrifice.
Denbo also made a pair of promotions aimed at nursing along the Yankees' best bats. He moved Double-A Trenton hitting coach Marcus Thames to Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, in part to keep him with top prospects Gary Sanchez, a catcher, and Robert Refsnyder, a second basemen. And Single-A hitting coach P.J. Pilittere moved to Trenton, in part to stick with another pair of top young hitters in Judge and first baseman  Bird.
"I had the opportunity when I was coming up as a younger coach to do basically the same things that P.J. and Marcus are doing right now," Denbo said. "They're both outstanding young coaches and they've been lucky enough to be paired with some very good young talent ... And you throw in (minor league hitting coorindator) James Rowson, along with those two, you have some guys who have done an outstanding job in developing the talents of those guys and we would like to keep them together."
Denbo would know something about that. In the early 1990s, it was the path he took, coaching Jeter at every level of the minor leagues and was his big league hitting coach for a stretch.
The process helped develop the trust that paid off when Jeter was young and all the way up to when Jeter was struggling in 2011.
"That's what good coaching is," Denbo said. "You develop good relationships with players and I think that enables you to be in a position to help them when help is needed, and develop a level of trust with the players so that when they feel like they do need coaching, you have something for them."
And it's clear that the Yankees trust Denbo.
Brendan Kuty may be reached at bkuty@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrendanKutyNJ. Find NJ.com Yankees on Facebook.
