  							Hughes is an American poet, social activist, novelist, playwright, and columnist. He was one of the earliest innovators of the then-new literary art form jazz poetry. Hughes is best known for his work during the Harlem Renaissance. He famously wrote about the period that "Harlem was in vogue."  
Biography  
Ancestry and Childhood  
Both of Hughes' paternal and maternal great-grandmothers were African-American, his maternal great-grandfather was white and of Scottish descent. A paternal great-grandfather was of European Jewish descent. Hughes's maternal grandmother Mary Patterson was of African-American, French, English and Native American descent. One of ... more   						  						  						  						
  							Click here to add this poet to your My Favorite Poets.  						
  							Dreams  						    
                              Hold fast to dreams  For if dreams die  Life is a broken-winged bird  That cannot fly.                          
  							As I Grew Older  						    
                              It was a long time ago.  I have almost forgotten my dream.  But it was there then,  In front of me,                          
  							Mother to Son  						    
                              Well, son, I'll tell you:  Life for me ain't been no crystal stair.  It's had tacks in it,  And splinters,                          
  							I, Too  						    
                              I, too, sing America.    I am the darker brother.  They send me to eat in the kitchen                          
  							April Rain Song  						    
                              Let the rain kiss you  Let the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid drops  Let the rain sing you a lullaby  The rain makes still pools on the sidewalk                          
  							Cross  						    
                              My old man's a white old man  And my old mother's black.  If ever I cursed my white old man  I take my curses back.                          
  							Let America be America Again  						    
                              Let America be America again.  Let it be the dream it used to be.  Let it be the pioneer on the plain  Seeking a home where he himself is free.                          
  							Democracy  						    
                              Democracy will not come  Today, this year  Nor ever  Through compromise and fear.                          
  							Children's Rhymes  						    
                              By what sends  the white kids  I ain't sent:  I know I can't                          
  							Suicide's Note  						    
                              The calm,   Cool face of the river  Asked me for a kiss.                          
  							Dream Variations  						    
                              To fling my arms wide  In some place of the sun,  To whirl and to dance  Till the white day is done.                          
  							The Negro Mother  						    
                              Children, I come back today   To tell you a story of the long dark way   That I had to climb, that I had to know   In order that the race might live and grow.                          
  							Life Is Fine  						    
                              I went down to the river,  I set down on the bank.  I tried to think but couldn't,  So I jumped in and sank.                          
  							Cultural Exchange  						    
                              In the Quarter of the Negroes  Where the doors are doors of paper  Dust of dingy atoms  Blows a scratchy sound.                          
  								  								Giant Medieval Sword  								(2/10/2015 9:59:00 PM)  								
  									Baby got Black.  								  								  								
  								  								Master Splinter  								(2/10/2015 6:21:00 PM)  								
  									he was black and so am I  								  								  								
  								  								Swagger Mcjagger  								(1/30/2015 11:42:00 AM)  								
  									He looks like my uncle. My uncle was a great man but everything changed after the incident  								  								  								
  								  								Marques De Valia  								(9/30/2014 11:24:00 AM)  								
  									Negroes - Sweet and docile, Meek, humble, and kind: Beware the day - They change their mind. - Langston Hughes  								  								  								
  								  								S B  								(5/5/2014 5:40:00 PM)  								
  									I really like his poem Acceptance  								  								  								
  								  								Dulip Madhasekara  								(1/30/2014 9:00:00 AM)  								
  									When I read 'Dreams' i feel that he wrote about me.....  								  								  								
  								  								p.a. noushad  								(9/7/2013 12:07:00 AM)  								
  									Dear Langston Hughes, your verses touch my heart deeply.  								  								  								
  								  								Rachel Gaddi  								(6/21/2013 2:32:00 PM)  								
  									Hello my Dear  
Compliments of the day to you.I am Rachel, how are you, hope you are fine and in  
perfect condition of health.I went through your profile today and i read it and took interest in it, if you don't mind i will like to know you much better, although i came online to look for a true and loving man that is ready for a true, honest and loving relationship and will be able to take good care of me if you are the kind of man am talking about then send me a mail now on my private email (rachell.4like@hotmail.com)  included, so that i will tell you all about myself and a picture of myself.looking forward to hear from you, thanks and God bless.(rachell.4likeat hotmail dot com)   
Thanks waiting to hear from you.  
Rachel.  								  								  								
  								  								Vineet Chhikara  								(5/27/2013 1:40:00 AM)  								
  									Have a look at my poems... and rate them... i am sure you will like them.... :)  								  								  								
  								  								Alan Sugar  								(8/30/2012 7:58:00 AM)  								
  									Poem for Langston Hughes  
Thunder is seldom so soft as when his sounds are spoken.  
That bird climbs on to life- to life!  Its wings have never broken.  
Those wings will take it to a place where crystal stairs have passed.  
That barren field of frozen snow will flourish with dreams at last.  
Hold fast!   
Hold fast.!  								  								  								
  			 Poems are the property of their respective owners. All information has been reproduced here for educational and informational purposes to benefit site visitors, and is provided at no charge...  		
