     Paolo Ballestros is a Filipino actor and television host with a special talent. He is so good with a makeup brush, he can make himself look like female celebrities. That's a unique talent for sure. Click here for all of the transformations.      
Bruce Jenner was the quintessential American guy. He's a gold-medal Olympian who loves planes, helicopters and golf.
He has 10 children  six biological and four step.
Jenner - who was involved in a fatal car crash recently in Los Angeles -  was long known for his chiseled, handsome appearance and flawless physique for decades.
Things have changed.
It appears that there is  truth to the rumors that Jenner is becoming a woman.
Speculation has been swirling regarding the king of the Kardashian clan's more feminine appearance. Following his separation from wife Kris back in 2013, Jenner sported long polished nails, flowing locks and shaved legs.
He underwent a laryngeal shave to flatten out the Adam's Apple, which is commonly the first step taken when someone decides to start the process of gender reassignment.
"I just never liked my trachea," Jenner commented after the 2013 surgery.
His breasts appeared larger during recent public appearances, and he's been seen wearing jewelry as well.
Last week, step-daughter Kim Kardashian West broke the family's silence on Entertainment Tonight, saying, "I guess I'll kind of let everyone be curious and I feel like that's his journey to talk about."
"I will say that I think Bruce should tell his story his way," the reality star adds. "I think everyone goes through things in life and I think that story and what Bruce is going through, I think he'll share whenever the time is right."
Since then, Bruce has shared more details with his mother Esther, and the 88-year-old woman opened up about her son's decision to become a woman.
The Associated Press asked Esther about her son's transition, and she had some pretty candid things to say.
"He said, 'Mom, I'm still the same person,' " she told the news outlet. " He said, 'I'm still going to race cars, I'm still going to fly airplanes and I'm going to get my helicopter license.' "
Although Esther says the news came as a shock, she's quite proud of her son and explains that she is "at peace with what he is and what he's doing."
"He said, 'I want to be honest about my identity and I know this is coming out in the press,' " his mother says.  "He started by saying, 'We need to have a long, serious talk.' " 
Jenner and his Kardashian counterparts are no strangers to being the center of attention, so it's not surprising that the public has been watching him like a hawk.
Lance Bass, who is close with the Kardashian-Jenner clan, tells People magazine the family is nothing but supportive of Jenner's transition.
Bass and husband Michael Turchin recently had dinner with Kris and her boyfriend Corey Gamble.
"We discussed it, of course ...  we have to ask our friend," he says. "Yeah, we had the inside information." 
During several seasons of reality show "Keeping Up with the Kardashians," Jenner  seemed to shy away from the spotlight, unlike his ex-wife and daughters.
However, it looks like he is ready to share his story.
It was recently confirmed that he will sit down with ABC News journalist Diane Sawyer for a special set to air in May. He's also reportedly agreed to film a docuseries for E!, the network behind the Kardashian reality shows.
The family discussion during which he broke the news was recorded, according to TMZ.
Ex-wife Kris is said to have had no idea Bruce wanted to become a woman.
Regardless of who knew what or what people's reactions are, one thing seems certain  Jenner is transitioning to a new place in life.
"I'm happy that he'll finally be at peace and he'll be the person that he wants to be," said transgender life coach Seth Rainess, who lives in Monmouth County. "... I think it's great."
There's been so much craziness surrounding Jenner for so long, this actually seems quite tame comparatively.
Kim Kardashian attempted to break the Internet with with nude pictures showcasing her "assets."
Khloe Kardashian went through a public break-up with ex-husband Lamar Odom, who reportedly was abusing crack cocaine.
Kourtney Kardashian has been involved in a volatile relationship with boyfriend Scott Disick, whose alcohol problems landed him in rehab.
Ex-wife Kris is so wrapped up in chasing fame for and managing her daughters that it's a wonder the marriage lasted as long as it did.
The list goes on.
If this decision brings calmness to Jenner's chaotic world, good for him.
Shari Puterman is Regional Content Strategist/Features Editor. 
Email: sputerman@app.com. 
