William Bruce Jenner (born October 28, 1949) is a former U.S. track and field athlete, motivational speaker, socialite, television personality and businessman. He won the gold medal for decathlon in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics. Following his Olympic victory and the related recognition, his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity. By 1981 he had starred in several made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs. Since the 2007 debut of Keeping Up with the Kardashians he is the stepfather of the Kardashian siblings: Kourtney, Kim, Khloe and Rob; and the father of Kendall and Kylie Jenner. Bruce Jenner is originally from Mount Kisco, New York. He attended Newtown High School in Newtown, Connecticut, after spending a year at Sleepy Hollow High School in Sleepy Hollow, New York. Jenner earned a football scholarship and attended Graceland College (now Graceland University) in Iowa, but a knee injury forced him to stop playing football and he switched to the decathlon. He was mentored by Graceland's track coach L. D. Weldon, who was the first to recognize Jenner's potential and encouraged him to pursue the decathlon.
Bruce Jenner is continuing his ride to transform, because we've learned a few weeks ago he got a nose job to smooth things out. Sources close to Bruce say the goal was to "soften" his features andREAD MORE >
 Bruce Jenner has stopped production of his docuseries chronicling his transformation from a man into a woman, because he feels pressured by producers and has concerns about his family.READ MORE >
Bruce Jennerisn't helping his cause any ... as authorities mull over whether to prosecute him for vehicular manslaughter, he was tooling around L.A. Friday driving around and talking on hisREAD MORE >
Reports the Kardashians have scored $100 million from E! for 4 more seasons are NOT true ... they're only getting a measly $80 mil ... TMZ has learned. NBCUniversal called the $100 mil storyREAD MORE >
If you're a gambler, you should bet that Bruce Jenner will NOT be prosecuted for vehicular manslaughter, because his screw up was driving HUA ... law enforcement sources tell TMZ. Sources familiarREAD MORE >
Bruce Jenner was traveling at 38 miles an hour when he struck the Lexus on Pacific Coast Highway earlier this month ... according to data retrieved from his SUV. Law enforcement sources tell TMZ,READ MORE >
 The Kardashians are driving a wedge between themselves and Bruce Jenner, and we've learned the upcoming season of "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" is a virtual farewell to the patriarch. SourcesREAD MORE >
 The woman who died in the Bruce Jenner car crash once appeared with Elvis in one of his big movies. We found this video of "Double Trouble" released in 1967. Kim Howe is the woman with blondeREAD MORE >
Bruce Jenner was squarely at fault in the fatal car crash ... so claim people familiar with the MTA video of the crash. Law enforcement would not comment on the video, however, othersREAD MORE >
A MTA bus caught the entire Bruce Jenner car crash on video and sources tell TMZ it squarely shows Bruce struck both cars, and the Lexus driver NEVER made contact with the Prius. LawREAD MORE >
         Should modeling industry get rid of term 'plus size'?       
