Eddie Huangs first book, a memoir, is titled Fresh Off the Boat, and the word to emphasize is fresh. Mr. Huang has a mouth on him.
Hes the proprietor of Baohaus, a raffish Taiwanese street-food joint in the East Village. (Try the pork-belly buns, known as gua bao.) He also hosts a show on Vice TV  it too is called Fresh Off the Boat  in which he does things like roll with biker gangs, wriggle in Taiwans metal scene and ingest a vast amount of offal. Hes Anthony Bourdain with a side of pickled radish.
Like the rappers he admires  Ghostface Killah, Dr. Dre, Mobb Deep  Mr. Huang likes to trash talk. His memoir is calculated to make ripples in the busy food blogosphere.
He takes aim at Alice Waters, by now a vine-ripened target. I aint never ate her food, he admits. But he skewers her good-shopping-is-good-eating ethos. You cant, Mr. Huang says, buy a championship.
He calls the brusque service in his restaurant Anti-Danny Meyer. He dislikes Harold McGees cerebral quality and Ferran Adris preciosity. He pokes Momofukus David Chang, hipster Americas most venerated chef, labeling him a bastardizer of gua bao. Comparing his pork buns to Mr. Changs, he boasts, Nine out of 10 Asians with taste buds and an I.Q. over 80 like us better.
This bluster  Mr. Huang puts the crude back in crudits  is not the reason to come to his book. Beneath it, Fresh Off the Boat is a surprisingly sophisticated memoir about race and assimilation in America. Its an angry book, as much James Baldwin and Jay-Z as Amy Tan. That its also bawdy and frequently hilarious nearly, if not entirely, seals the deal.
Mr. Huang, who was born in 1982, grew up in Orlando, Fla., Americas least interesting city, where wit and soulfulness run afoul of zoning laws. There his Taiwanese father  who came to America because it was the land of opportunity, free love and the Bee Gees, the author says  ran a string of increasingly successful seafood and steak restaurants.
Eddie Huang was a rebel almost from the crib. He had little interest in being a stereotypical model minority; when he faced racial epithets at school, he fought back. There was this switch that would go off, he writes. I wanted to hurt people like they hurt me.
He got pretty good at hurting people. I beat that kid, he writes about a white guy who menaced him for racial reasons, as if he were Reaganomics, the Counting Crows, and Moby-Dick all rolled into one.
Black culture, he felt, held more lessons for him than did Asian culture. He became obsessed with basketball, especially Charles Barkley, and with basketball sneakers. Good shoes were like having cars on your feet, he says. Shoes were literally your hopes and dreams in a box.
He plowed through black literature and sports biographies. About race and the fact that his father occasionally beat him, at times with a five-pound rubber alligator purchased at Busch Gardens, he says, There wasnt a section in the library titled Books for Abused Kids, but there was black history and somehow, some way, it made sense to me.
Perhaps most important, he found Tupac Shakurs music. Pac made sense to us, Mr. Huang writes about himself and an Asian-American friend. We lived in a world that treated us like deviants and we were outcast. He adds: Pac was the one guy we all pointed to and said, Tell me this isnt someone we should respect. Tell me this isnt positive. Tell me hes not an artist.
Mr. Huang spent a lot of time getting into scrapes. I was a loudmouthed, brash, broken Asian who had no respect for authority in any form, he says. He sold drugs, picked fights and ran sports betting pools. He peddled pornography, in those innocent pre-Internet days, to other kids. His parents didnt always mind. About the pornography business, Mr. Huang says about his mother, She respected the hustle.
Mr. Huang attended the University of Pittsburgh and Rollins College and got a degree from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, mostly so that no one could ever look down on me again. But his heart wasnt in legal work.
He designed street fashion and worked as a comedian before landing a small spot on the Food Network show Ultimate Recipe Showdown. He prepared something he called Chairman Maos Cherry Cola skirt steak (and he knocks David Chang for inauthenticity?) and served it on a bun. I lost the competition, he says, but won the crowd.
His parents were against him stepping into the food world. He had a law degree! But hed always been a maniacal eater. Fresh Off the Boat contains a lot of salty food-minded writing, the best of it totally unprintable here.
As a kid he understood that Chuck E. Cheese was for mouth breathers and kids with Velcro shoes. The Huang family van couldnt turn without looking like a club sandwich falling apart. In high school he was a first-rate stoner chef, using a clothing iron on frozen chimichangas. He comes to realize that the one place that America allows Chinese people to do their thing is in the kitchen.
Youll pick a lot of gristle from between your teeth while reading Fresh Off the Boat. Mr. Huang works too hard to establish his street cred. Hes full of himself in ways that work only in rap lyrics. (My food was, is, and always will be ill.) There are continuity mishaps; he turns up in college in Pittsburgh without a word about how he got there. He refers at one point to experiencing mental diarrhea, a phrase that some readers  older ones, especially  may feel could have been an alternate title for this whole production.
But Mr. Huang mostly puts this book across. Its a rowdy and, in its way, vital counterpoint to the many dignified and more self-consciously literary memoirs we have about immigration and assimilation. Its a book about fitting in by not fitting in at all.
