A police report released Wednesday has shed more light on the circumstances leading to the arrest this month of NFL Hall of Fame lineman Warren Sapp, who is facing charges of soliciting prostitution and two counts of assault in Phoenix Municipal Court.
Sapp, 42, of Hollywood, Fla., is accused of assaulting two women while forcing them out of his room at the Renaissance Hotel in downtown Phoenix on Feb. 2.
One of his reported victims, age 23, is facing a prostitution charge. Another woman, age 34, who identified herself as the 23-year-old's coworker, was cited for failure to register with the state as an escort, according to the report.
Investigators say Sapp was in the hotel bar when he struck up a conversation with the women, who claimed to be dancers at a popular Las Vegas strip club, and invited them up to his room.
The women told police they were dancing for Sapp inside his hotel room and he threw $100 bills at them.
But investigators say Sapp reported giving each woman $300 in exchange for a sex act. The 23-year-old complied by giving him oral sex, which Sapp recorded on his cellphone and later showed police, while the 34-year-old hid in the bathroom and didn't emerge until she heard the pair arguing, according to the report.
Sapp told police that the 23-year-old asked for additional money for intercourse and began yelling when he refused to pay her more.
"He told her several times that she needed to leave but she was irate," the report said. "At one point, she used Warren's phone to call security to his room."
The woman said she was collecting her belongings when Sapp grabbed her by the arms and threw her into the hallway, the force of which knocked both women down, according to the report.
"I do what I do, but that doesn't give him the right to put his hands on me," the 23-year-old told police.
Sapp was a defensive lineman for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Oakland Raiders. The NFL Network fired Sapp from his analyst job after his arrest. Sapp's next court appearance is scheduled for Monday.
