TAMPA, Fla. -- The sight of Alex Rodriguez climbing into a white SUV still in his baseball uniform was so odd it even struck him as absurd. "I look like I'm going home from my Sunday morning softball league,'' he said.
A few moments earlier, his teammate Carlos Beltran did the same thing, sweating profusely after playing five innings in the mid-80s Florida heat. "These innings, they last for like 25 minutes,'' he said.
A-Rod and Beltran were spared the 3-hour bus ride across the state -- and having to take their cuts against Matt Harvey rather than a bunch of minor-league kids -- for Sunday's game against the Mets in Port St. Lucie. But given the choice next time, both might opt for getting on the bus. Rodriguez played his five innings at third base for the Trenton Thunder in a game against the New Hampshire Fisher Cats, the Toronto Blue Jays' Double-A affiliate. At the same time, on an adjoining field, Beltran served as the DH for the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees against the Buffalo Bisons, the Blue Jays' Triple-A team.
Rodriguez had two singles in his five at-bats and struck out once against a lefty sidearmer named Chad Girodo. Beltran went 2-for-4 with a double, single and one strikeout. He also walked once. Both aging superstars, A-Rod trying to come back from a 19-month layoff, Beltran from offseason elbow surgery, were left back in order to pile up a few extra at-bats -- they both batted in every inning of their games -- and both will do the same on Monday when the Yankees travel to Viera, another 2-plus-hour bus trip, for a game against the Washington Nationals.
"You guys all owe us a steak dinner and a cold beer, me and Carlos,'' A-Rod said to the half-dozen Yankee beat writers who stayed back to make sure no one got hurt. "Its unbelievable. You guys should be in Port St. Lucie.''
And miss all the fun at the Yankees' minor-league complex? No way.
A-Rod and Beltran's first at-bats occurred practically simultaneously in the bottom of the first, Rodriguez lining a fastball into center and Beltran drawing a walk. Both eventually scored easily on base hits. The second time around, Rodriguez grounded a single and Beltran struck out looking. Beltran grounded out to short in his third at-bat while A-Rod rolled over to third. A-Rod's fourth at-bat was his worst, when he went down swinging at Girodo's slow curve, and Beltran's fourth was his best, a line double to right. A-Rod closed out his day with another groundout to third while Beltran finished with a single.
And in spite of the torrid weather and the tepid pace of play -- it took nearly two always sloppy, often error-filled hours to get through five innings -- both players termed the day a success.
"That was great. Tiring, but very productive,'' Rodriguez said. "Any time you can see, I dont know how many pitches I saw, maybe 20, thats a good day of work.''
"I feel like Im making improvements,'' said Beltran. "Seeing the ball better. I know at the end of the day, you want a result, you want to hit the ball hard, but for me its more about feeling healthy, feeling like Im recuperating every day. I feel physically fine, so it cant get better than this.''
The two will swap roles on Monday -- A-Rod will DH and Beltran will play right field -- after which, they both might wish they had gone on to Viera, too.
"I got to play my five innings in the field,'' Beltran said. "So Im already feeling sorry about myself tomorrow.''
