Warren Sapp (born December 19, 1972) is a former American college and professional football player who was defensive tackle in the National Football League (NFL) for thirteen seasons. He played college football for the University of Miami Hurricanes, was recognized as a consensus All-American and won multiple awards. He was drafted by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the 1995 NFL Draft as the 12th overall pick, and played professionally for the Buccaneers and the Oakland Raiders of the NFL. He spent nine seasons with the Buccaneers where he earned seven trips to the Pro Bowl and a Super Bowl ring in 2002. He moved to the Raiders in 2004. His 96.5 career sacks (100 counting the playoffs) are the second-highest career total sacks for a defensive tackle and the 28th highest overall for a defensive lineman. His 77 sacks with the Buccaneers is second in the team's history. During Sapp's career, he was the source of some controversy because of his hard-hitting style of play and his occasional verbal outbursts, both on the field and off. Some of these resulted in NFL fines, and he was once ejected from a game for unsportsmanlike conduct.
 // Warren Sapp finally has an ally -- the pimpest pimp in all of pimpdom ... Bishop Don "Magic" Juan ... who just issued a STAUNCH DEFENSE of his NFL superstar pal in his Super Bowl hooker case.READ MORE >
 One of the women Warren Sapp allegedly paid for "sex acts" on the night after the Super Bowl has pled NOT GUILTY to misdemeanor prostitution ... TMZ Sports has learned. As we previouslyREAD MORE >
One of the escorts in the Warren Sapp hooker bust was arrested by the NYPD last year -- after cops say she ran an upscale sex scam ... and fleeced rich dudes out of tons of cash and jewelry.READ MORE >
 Warren Sapp told police he paid $600 for oral sex from 2 prostitutes ... and recorded one of the sex acts on his cell phone ... this according to the police report. TMZ Sports broke theREAD MORE >
First the NFL Network, then Bud Light ... now another company is cutting ties with Warren Sapp ... TMZ Sports has learned. This time, the company dropping the hammer on the NFL Hall of FamerREAD MORE >
 Warren Sapp wasn't exactly Mr. Congeniality at the NFL Network -- with a whole bunch of employees telling TMZ Sports they're GLAD he's gone ... because he was a nightmare to work with. WeREAD MORE >
Bud Light's up for whatever ... but clearly, there's a line ... because the beer giant has officially pulled Warren Sapp's commercial after this week's prostitution arrest ... TMZ Sports hasREAD MORE >
Warren Sapp is being offered a helping hand ... or orifice ... from a Nevada brothel that says the next time Warren has a hankerin' for ass, he should get it legally ... first one's onREAD MORE >
Warren Sapphas just been released from custody without bail ... and is allowed to leave the state and go back home to Florida after a judge decided he's not a flight risk. Sapp just appearedREAD MORE >
2:15 PM PT -- The NFL Network has fired Sapp. He'd been with the network since 2008.12:55 PM PT --New details in the Warren Sapp arrest ... Cops say two women told police they were atREAD MORE >
