MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said the league expects to have adecision on possible discipline against Angels outfielderJosh Hamiltonby Opening Day, according to the Associated Press.
"We are working toward a result," Manfred said."I expect a decision before Opening Day. Obviously with Josh Hamilton recovering from surgery, that may give us some more time because he won't play."
According to earlier reports, Major League Baseball is undecided about havingHamilton, who is recovering from shoulder surgery, enter a rehabilitation program following a drug relapse or face a suspension. The case has been assigned to an arbitrator. MLB officials believe Hamilton should be suspended for at least 25 games and potentially for one year. However, the union is arguing for a lesser penalty, potentially 15 games and Hamilton entering a treatment program.
If Hamilton is sent to rehab, he would receive his full salary for 30 days, and then half his salary over the next 30 days. If he's suspended, Hamilton would not be paid during the suspension and would not have to enter a treatment program.
Hamilton, who was suspended from baseball from 2004-06 for issues related to cocaine and alcohol abuse,admitted to MLB he experienced a relapsea few months ago, according to CBSSports.com Baseball Insider Jon Heyman. A source told Heyman in late February that Hamilton confessed to going on a binge that involved cocaine.
The Major League Baseball Players Association issued a statement about leaked information regarding Angels outfielder Josh Hamilton, MLB.com reports.
"It is regrettable that people who want to see Josh Hamilton hurt personally and professionally have started leaking information about the status of his treatment program and the confidential processes under our Joint Drug Agreement," the statement read. "These anonymous leaks are cowardly, undermine the integrity of our collectively bargained agreements and in some instances have been wholly inaccurate. The Major League Baseball Players Association will use every right we have under the collective bargaining agreement to make sure Josh gets the help he needs, and the fair and confidential process to which he is entitled."
The Los Angeles Times reported Wednesday that an arbitrator would be needed to break the league's split on whether Hamilton should enter a rehab program for substance abuse. It was reported early Thursday that the decision on whether the league will suspend the outfielder could come as early as next week.
Major League Baseball could have a decision on whether or not to discipline Angels outfielder Josh Hamilton as early as next week,industry sources told FOX Sports.
Currently, MLB is undecided about havingHamilton enter a rehabilitation program following a drug relapse, according to the Los Angeles Times. An arbitrator has been appointed afterthe four-member panel -- with two representatives each from MLB and the MLB Players Association -- assigned to Hamilton's case could not reach a majority opinion on the proper course.
MLB officials believe Hamilton should be suspended for at least 25 games and potentially for one year. However, the union is arguing for a lesser penalty, potentially 15 games and Hamilton entering a treatment program.
If Hamilton is sent to rehab, he would receive his full salary for 30 days, and then half his salary over the next 30 days. If he's suspended, Hamilton would not be paid during the suspension and would not have to enter a treatment program.
Hamilton, who was suspended from baseball from 2004-06 for issues related to cocaine and alcohol abuse,admitted to MLB he experienced a relapse a few months ago, according to CBSSports.com Baseball Insider Jon Heyman. A source told Heyman in late February that Hamilton confessed to going on a binge that involved cocaine.
The four person panel assigned to Hamilton's case are deadlocked, and the group will have to bring in an arbitrator in order to break the tie. The panel first must decide whether Hamilton violated any rules, and then must agree on a course of treatment. The panel has not been able to agree on the latter of those conditions, which is why an arbitrator is necessary.
If Hamilton is sent to rehab, he would receive his full salary for 30 days, and then half his salary over the next 30 days. If he's suspended, but does not have to attend rehab, Hamilton would not be paid during the suspension.
Hamilton, 33, admitted to MLB that he experienced a relapse a few months ago, according to CBSSports.com Baseball Insider Jon Heyman. Hamilton has dealt with drug and alcohol issues throughout his career, and was suspended for three seasons after failing drug tests as a minor-leaguer. He met with officials in New York in February regarding the incident.
