Amazon.com: Elephantmen Volume 1: Wounded Animals Revised Edition TP (9781607063377): Richard Starkings, Joe Kelly, Moritat: Books
                                    Amazon                      Try Prime    
         
                         
   
        
                                                    Your Amazon.com Today's Deals Gift Cards Sell Help            
         
       
     
            


                                Shop by Department 
               
                                          Hello. Sign in Your Account  Try Prime  Wish List  Cart 0 
                  
                     Search     
                                 Books    
           
     
                      Go          
     
                     
       
     
    
        
           
           Books Advanced Search New Releases Best Sellers The New York Times Best Sellers Children's Books Textbooks Textbook Rentals Sell Us Your Books Best Books of the Month Deals in Books                  
         
      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                      
        
                                                                                
                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                             Share                                                                                    Facebook                                                                         Twitter                                                                         Pinterest                 
  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            	                                              	                                                                         Buy New         
                                                                                                            $13.97                 
                      
     
          
                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qty:Qty: 1        
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                           						 						 						  List Price: $19.99 					
                                                    		                                           				 					 						                             Save: $6.02                              (30%) 						 					
 				                           			 		   			                                          		                                

                 
                                                                      
                                             			                                                                                                            FREE Shipping on orders over $35.             
        
                                                                                 	                                                                                              Only 13 left in stock (more on the way).                                                    
                                                                                                                       Ships from and sold by Amazon.com.                                              
                           Gift-wrap available.           
                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Elephantmen Volume 1: Wou...                              has been added to your Cart                          
                      
                  
              
                
             Add to Cart 
                                                

                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sign in to turn on 1-click ordering

             
                                                             
                                                                				 				     				       				           				               				         	                                                                                                             Want it Tuesday, March 24?                                  Order within  and choose One-Day Shipping at checkout.                                      Details                              
                                     
                   
  				                 				             				         				    
 				
 			                                                                                                                                 	        
                       Shipping Address              
                                                                      VA 20146                                            
                                                      Select a shipping address:                      
                                       To see addresses, please                      
                                                            Sign in                                                       Manage address book                              
         
                                                                                     See more                                                                                                 Manage address book                              
         
         or

                                       Use this location:                                                                Update                              
                                                                            Please enter a valid zip code.                                      
             
         
     
          
                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                             
                                                                                                                    
 
                                     

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Buy Used                 
                                                                                                                                                                      $6.34                         
                                       
             
         
                                                            
                                                                     +$3.99shipping
       
                                                        	 		                                                          Used:                                                Good 		 		 			 |  			 				Details 			 		 	
 	 	 	 		Sold by 		 			 			 				brit-books-usa 			 		 	
 	      	 
           	 		Condition: 		Used: Good 	
 	 		 			Comment: Simply Brit: We have dispatched from our UK warehouse books of good condition to over 1 million satisfied customers worldwide. We are committed to providing you with a reliable and efficient service at all times.      
 	 
                                                                             
                                                                                                                     Add to Cart 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sign in to turn on 1-click ordering

             
                                                                     
                                                                        
         
     
                                  

                                                      
                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Add to Wish List                                                                         
                                                                                                                          

                       
                   
               
           
                                                                                                                              Sorry, there was a problem.                           
                                                          There was an error retrieving your Wish Lists. Please try again.                                                  
                   
               
           
                                                                                                                              Sorry, there was a problem.                           
                                                          Wish List unavailable.                                                  
                   
               
           
                         Add to Baby Registry                              Add to Baby Registry              
                   
                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Have one to sell?                                              Sell on Amazon                                      
                        
                           
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                 
       
     
   
                                           Flip to back           Flip to front                
                                                                      Listen                                                                              Playing...                                                                              Paused                                                              You're listening to a sample of the Audible audio edition.           
Learn more                
     
 
                                          
                           
                      See all 2 images         
  
 
   
                     
                                                                                                                  	         		                          Elephantmen Volume 1: Wounded Animals Revised Edition TP                                     Paperback                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   December 7, 2010                                   
 
            	 	 	 		 		 	         	        by 	                                                       	         	     	  		 		 			 		 		              		 		 			 			  				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 					 							 							 							 							 								 									Richard Starkings 									  									(Author) 									 									 								
 								 									  Visit Amazon's Richard Starkings Page 								
 								 									Find all the books, read about the author, and more. 								
 								 									See search results for this author 								
 								 									 										 											Are you an author? 											Learn about Author Central 										 									
 								 							  						


 				
 				 					Richard Starkings 					 				 			 			 			 		 		 		        	         		        			(Author),         		        	     	                                                  	         	     	  		 		 			 		 		              		 		 			 			  				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 				 					 							 							 							 							 								 									Joe Kelly 									  									(Author) 									 									 								
 								 									  Visit Amazon's Joe Kelly Page 								
 								 									Find all the books, read about the author, and more. 								
 								 									See search results for this author 								
 								 									 										 											Are you an author? 											Learn about Author Central 										 									
 								 							  						


 				
 				 					Joe Kelly 					 				 			 			 			 		 		 		        	         		        			(Author),         		        	     	                                                                        	         	     	  		 		 			 		 		              		 		 			 			 			 				Moritat  			 			 		 		 		        	         		        			(Illustrator)        		        	     	           	      	         		 	 		 		 	 		 		 	 
           	                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                	     	    	 		         		             		         	         	         	                                                                               			14 customer reviews 		                                         
                                                                                       
                                                                                                                   Book 1  of 4 in the   Elephantmen Series                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                       	         		         		 					
                                                                  	         		              	                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                 	         		        
                                                                                                                                	         		                  	 	    	 	 	 	                   See all 3 formats and editions     Hide other formats and editions                                                                                                                                                                                                                Amazon Price                              New from                                               Used from                                       


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hardcover                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "Please retry"                 


                                           	         	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                       
             

                                                                                                                                               $16.28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $8.47                                                                                                                                                                    

 
                 
                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Paperback                                                                                                                                                                                 "Please retry"                 


                                           	         	                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $13.97                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                       
             

                                                                                                                                               $9.98                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $6.34                                                                                                                                                                    

 
                 
               
                                                            
            	                                    Hardcover 
                                      	from $8.47                                         	                                                                                                   	 		       		     	   	       			                                                                        14 Used from $8.47                                                                                                                           11 New from $16.28                                                                         		 		  	   	                
 	              	              	            	          	        	                        	            	              	              	                                	              	                	                                    Paperback 
                                            $13.97                                                         	                                            	                         	                      	 		       		     	   	       			                                                                        15 Used from $6.34                                                                                                                           34 New from $9.98                                                                                                                           1 Collectible from $45.00                                                                		 		  	   	                
 	              	              	              	            	          	                                                   


            	                                                          
                                                                                                                                	         		              	                                                          
                                                                                                                                	         		                                                              	                                                                                                                                                             
            	                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                            	                                                          
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                     	       
            
   
     
                                                                                                                                                    
             
  The Circular Staircase 
  March is Women's Mystery Month, a celebration of women mystery writers. Mary Roberts Rinehart was one of the most prolific. If you're not familiar with her work, check out The Circular Staircase now available on Kindle.       
 
                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                     
     
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
      Frequently Bought Together
                                                      +                                                      +                                                  

          Price for all three:$49.90       
                          Add all three to Cart                           Add all three to Wish List              
     
      
 
                    Buy the selected items together                                                   This item:    Elephantmen Volume 1: Wounded Animals Revised Edition TP by Richard Starkings Paperback   $13.97    
                                                   
                                                             Fatal Diseases (Elephantmen)  by Richard Starkings Paperback   $18.31    
                                                   
                                                            Elephantmen Volume 00 TP  by Richard Starkings Paperback   $17.62    
                                                   
         
     
      
                                                                                                  
                                   Customers Who Bought This Item Also Bought

Page 1 of 1   Start over

                                   
Fatal Diseases (Elephantmen)             Richard Starkings
                                                                 1         
     Paperback 
$18.31 Prime
          
     
                      
Elephantmen Volume 3: Dangerous Liasons TP             Richard Starkings
                                                                 2         
     Paperback 
$21.51 Prime
          
     
                      
Elephantmen Volume 00 TP             Richard Starkings
                                                                 1         
     Paperback 
$17.62 Prime
          
     
                      
Elephantmen Volume 4: Questionable Things             Richard Starkings
                                                                 2         
     Paperback 
$24.99 Prime
          
     
                      
Hip Flask: Unnatural Selection 10th             Richard Starkings
                                                                 1         
     Hardcover 
$13.89 Prime
          
     
                      
Hip Flask: Unnatural Selection             Richard Starkings
                                                                 2         
     Hardcover 
$22.47 Prime
          
     
             


Back   
Next


         
                            
                              NO_CONTENT_IN_FEATURE
                                                                                                        Tell the Publisher!          
I'd like to read this book on Kindle       

     Don't have a Kindle?  Get your Kindle here, or download a FREE  Kindle Reading App.     

 
 
 
      
                 
           
                  
   Looking for the Audiobook Edition? 
Tell us that you'd like this title to be produced as an audiobook, and we'll alert our colleagues at Audible.com. If you are the author or rights holder, let Audible help you produce the audiobook: Learn more at ACX.com.        
 
   

                                                                                                                                     	 	                                                             
  Product Details
           Series: Elephantmen (Book 1)

       Paperback: 312 pages
           Publisher: Image Comics; Revised edition edition (December 7, 2010)
       Language: English
        ISBN-10: 1607063379
 ISBN-13: 978-1607063377
                                                                                                             Product Dimensions:           10.1 x 6.6 x 1.1 inches     
       Shipping Weight: 2.8 pounds (View shipping rates and policies)
                                               Average Customer Review:                4.4 out of 5 starsSee all reviews(14 customer reviews)
                              Amazon Best Sellers Rank:                                   #421,675 in Books (See Top 100 in Books)                
       		 	 		 	 		 	 			 			 			                                                                               			
Would you like to update product info, give feedback on images, or tell us about a lower price?
      
     
         


                                                                                                            
                           

      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          

                             Customer Reviews
                                                                (14)      
          4.4 out of 5 stars      
                                                               5 star                         

                           
       4 star                         

                           
       3 star                         

                           
       2 star                  

                                 
       1 star                         

                           

See all 14 customer reviews                
    
                                                  How the plot was written and how it is unfolded. 


 J. Lee   If you are looking for something that offers more than the usual comic book fare then you owe it to yourself to read Elephantmen. 


 arachnidman   Great book and great stories with lots of depth and realistic art! 


 William Walker 

  

  
         
       
                                              Most Helpful Customer Reviews
                             10 of 12 people found the following review helpful  Poor binding  
                     By          R. Moon     on November 1, 2008  
Format: Hardcover         I love Elephantmen; the art, the story, and this is a great collection.  HOwever it gets 3/5 stars because the binding easily breaks apart.  Seems to be due to poor or very old glue holding the book to the cover.  Otherwise a very compelling read with bold and dynamic visuals. 
  
             3 Comments                     Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
            3 of 4 people found the following review helpful  Cant get enought of Elephantmen  
                     By          Airion Baez     on February 14, 2011  
Format: Paperback      Verified Purchase            This book was a great read. The writer of this book has alot of emotions when writing this book. In the beginning ebony meets a young girl named savanna. Its kinda a heart felt moment between the two and ebony keeps having flashbacks about the war and how it has effected him. Aside from the writing, the book has tons of great artistry throught-out this book. Whenever i open this book i immediately think of blade runner in how the futuristic settings are and the overall characters. The characters have such an alluring mysterious aura about them that makes me want to get my hands on the second volume. This was actaully my first comic book ive picked up in a long time and it will diffently not be the last one also.

Recommened for any who likes blade runner and any other sci-fi genres 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
            3 of 4 people found the following review helpful  Great writing, Fantastic Art !!!!!!!!!!!!!  
                     By          arachnidman     on January 15, 2008  
Format: Hardcover         If you are looking for something that offers more than the usual comic book fare then you owe it to yourself to read Elephantmen. The description tells you the premise but there are so many layers to each story written by Mr. Starkings that you are left anxiously waiting for the next issue. The art by Moritat is nothing short of brilliant and the colors he uses compliment not only the fantastic art work but the storyline as well. (Moritat pencils and colors the book) This is one of the best monthly comic book titles being published but woefully under read so give it a chance, you'll be glad you did. 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
            6 of 9 people found the following review helpful  FOR THOSE WHO WANT SOMETHING A LITTLE DIFFERENT  
                     By          Galan     on October 6, 2007  
Format: Hardcover         My attention to the "Hip Flask" universe had originally been brought by the "Concrete Jungle" volume, more specifically its beautiful cover.  This universe created by Starkings (and with the help of the fantastical art by Ladron) is rich with characters that you cannot help but emphasize with.
  Basically, what the "Hip Flask" universe is the following: Scientifically bred animals native to Africa (The titular hippo, zebras, lions, et.,) are spliced with human DNA to become super-weapons in the future of a Blade Runner-esque earth replete with evil corporations, environmental problems, and huge cities, and I shall put the word NOIR in capitals to emphasize its influences.  Most of the stories take place after the "Elephant-men" as they are called have been freed, and how they have integrated with human-society.
  Beautiful art coupled with future-noir and rich characterizations make the "Hip Flask" universe a must-read.  However, this review is about "Wounded Animals".  Do I really need to say more?  Well, in case I do this is the story of the revolt of the "Elephant Men", and it is bloody and graphic.  Do not let that ward you the reader off, though.  Grab this book and you will be back on Amazon shorty after buying all the others in this collection. 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
            2 of 3 people found the following review helpful  Very read-worthy  
                     By          Suzene     on July 8, 2008  
Format: Hardcover         'Wounded Animals' is a change of pace from most comic collections; it's definitely not of the "written for the trade" species. Instead of a linear narrative, the audience is introduced to the characters through a series of sequentially illustrated short stories that do share some common plot threads, but are largely capable of standing on their own. Starkings, Moritat, and the other contributors do a great job presenting tales that run the gamut of emotions from humor to horror to hope and back again. This is a fantastic compilation and an intriguing look at a dystopian future and humanity's reaction to the Other. I recommend it highly to any comic-book and SF fans looking for something a little different. 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
            1 of 2 people found the following review helpful  Travel new paths and imagine if you were THERE!  
                     By          William Walker     on August 12, 2007  
Format: Hardcover         I have collected the comics but the hardcover runs them end to end and makes you regret putting it down to go to bed.  Great book and great stories with lots of depth and realistic art! 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
   Five Stars  
                     By          W. M.     on February 4, 2015  
Format: Paperback      Verified Purchase            The price was unbeatable 
  
        Comment                    Was this review helpful to you?                 Yes    No                Sending feedback...       	Thank you for your feedback. 	 	  If this review is inappropriate, please let us know.            


        Sorry, we failed to record your vote. Please try again   


     
           
             
         
       
                                                    See all 14 customer reviews (newest first)        
            Write a customer review            
                        
     
                      


                                               Most Recent Customer Reviews   
        Awesome!  
                  Awesome!              
              Published 3 months ago by michael martinez  
  Awesome!  
                  Perfect condition, beautiful book! Looking forward to purchasing the rest of the series in hard cover! cant say enough about this book.              
              Published 23 months ago by Michael Doan  
  good book  
                  You'll like it read more! read more real books not screens.read more read more read more read more read more read more              
              Published on February 13, 2013 by ace  
  Worth every penny  
                  This book's cover may look hokey or you may think that it is somehow cartoonish because of the cover. You're wrong.                       Read more         
              Published on May 28, 2011 by Gaddijj  
  Read Issue #1. Evaluation: Instant Fan  
                  I am NOT a comic-goer. As in matter of fact, I have never bought a comic book. Ever. I've purchased novels. I seldom purchase manga, anime, and movies. But never comics.                       Read more         
              Published on April 17, 2011 by J. Lee  
  good promise, lotsa filler  
                  elepantmen promise so much and dont deliver.
some issues are just filler to make more money, the pirate story at the end of the book is a disaster - it screams in your face...                       Read more         
              Published on March 16, 2010 by Evzenie Reitmayerova  
  I wanted to like it but couldn't  
                  I really liked this books look and feel, but the jumping story lines were just too confusing for me. And the pirate story at the end just didn't click with me.                       Read more         
              Published on December 2, 2007 by T. Hirsi  
            
                               Search Customer Reviews         
           Search              Search these reviews only   
                 
     
      
 
   
                            
       What Other Items Do Customers Buy After Viewing This Item?
                      Fatal Diseases (Elephantmen)  by Richard StarkingsPaperback     
5.0 out of 5 stars(1)  
$18.31
   
 
  
                               Sex Criminals Volume 1 TP  by Matt FractionPaperback     
4.4 out of 5 stars(101)  
$6.31
   
 
  
                               Elephantmen Volume 3: Dangerous Liasons TP  by Richard StarkingsPaperback     
3.5 out of 5 stars(2)  
$21.51
   
 
  
                               Elephantmen Revised and Expanded Volume 1 HC  by Richard StarkingsHardcover     
4.0 out of 5 stars(1)  
$29.92
   
 
  
     
 Explore similar items
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   

                      Set up an Amazon Giveaway
         
                                   Amazon Giveaway allows you to run promotional giveaways in order to create buzz, reward your audience, and attract new followers and customers.  Learn more 

                                       
                                                   This item:  Elephantmen Volume 1: Wounded Animals Revised Edition TP 

                                      Price:                                                                                                                                     $19.99                                                                                            $13.97 

                                      Ships from and sold by Amazon.com 

                                      Set up a giveaway   

             
         

     
                                                                                  
	                                                             
                                   Feedback
               	    	  If you have a question or problem, visit our  Help pages. 	   
 			   	 	 		 	 		 	 		 	 			 			 			                                                                               			            
 	             If you are a seller for this product and want to change product data, click here (you may have to sign in with your seller id).            

           


   
 
 

                                 Your Recently Viewed Items and Featured Recommendations
                                    
  	                                                     


     
Get to Know Us
Careers 
Investor Relations 
Press Releases 
Amazon and Our Planet 
Amazon in the Community 
Amazon Devices 

 Make Money with Us
Sell on Amazon 
Sell Your Services on Amazon 
Sell Your Apps on Amazon 
Become an Affiliate 
Advertise Your Products 
Self-Publish with Us 
 See all 

 Amazon Payment Products
Amazon.com Rewards Visa Card 
Amazon.com Store Card 
Amazon.com Corporate Credit Line 
Shop with Points 
Credit Card Marketplace 
Amazon Currency Converter 

 Let Us Help You
Your Account 
Shipping Rates & Policies 
Amazon Prime 
Returns & Replacements 
Manage Your Content and Devices 
Help 

 


  Australia 
Brazil 
Canada 
China 
France 
Germany 
India 
Italy 
Japan 
Mexico 
Netherlands 
Spain 
United Kingdom


   6pm
Score deals
 on fashion brands   AbeBooks
Rare Books
 & Textbooks   ACX 
Audiobook Publishing
 Made Easy   AfterSchool.com
Kids Sports, Outdoor
 & Dance Gear   Alexa
Actionable Analytics
 for the Web   AmazonFresh
Groceries & More
 Right To Your Door   Amazon Local
Great Local Deals
 in Your City   
 
 AmazonSupply
Business, Industrial
 & Scientific Supplies   Amazon Web Services
Scalable Cloud
 Computing Services   Audible
Download
 Audio Books   BeautyBar.com
Prestige Beauty
 Delivered   Book Depository
Books With Free
 Delivery Worldwide   Casa.com
Kitchen, Storage
 & Everything Home   ComiXology
Thousands of
 Digital Comics   
 
 CreateSpace
Indie Print Publishing
 Made Easy   Diapers.com
Everything
 But The Baby   DPReview
Digital
 Photography   East Dane
Designer Men's
 Fashion   Fabric
Sewing, Quilting
 & Knitting   Goodreads
Book reviews
 & recommendations   IMDb
Movies, TV
 & Celebrities   
 
 Junglee.com
Shop Online
 in India   Kindle Direct Publishing
Indie Digital Publishing
 Made Easy    Look.com
Kids' Clothing
 & Shoes   MYHABIT
Private Fashion
 Designer Sales   Shopbop
Designer
 Fashion Brands   Soap.com
Health, Beauty &
 Home Essentials   TenMarks.com
Math Activities
 for Kids & Schools   
 
 Vine.com
Everything
 to Live Life Green   Wag.com
Everything
 For Your Pet   Warehouse Deals
Open-Box
 Discounts   Woot!
Discounts and 
 Shenanigans   Yoyo.com
A Happy Place
 To Shop For Toys   Zappos
Shoes &
 Clothing      


  Conditions of Use 
Privacy Notice 
Interest-Based Ads 
 1996-2015, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates


 
   

      

